(CNN) - Lauren London broke her silence Tuesday and paid tribute to her longtime boyfriend Nipsey Hussle. 
"I am completely lost. I've lost my best friend, my sanctuary, my protector, my soul," she wrote in an Instagram post. 
"I'm lost without you. We are lost without you babe. I have no words."
The model and actress had been in a five-year relationship with the rapper, and had a young son with him named Kross.
They formed a tight-knit family with their son, Hussle's daughter from a previous relationship, and Cameron Carter, London's son with rapper Lil Wayne.
The couple has been known as one of the genre's more enduring love stories.
Hussle was fatally shot Sunday in Los Angeles near a clothing store he owned, police said.
The suspect, Eric Holder, was arrested Tuesday. Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore said Hussle and Holder knew each other, and the shooting appears to be the product of a personal dispute. 
(CNN) - Eric Holder, the man police think fatally shot rapper Nipsey Hussle on Sunday has been arrested, Los Angeles police announced on Twitter. 
"Thank you to both our community for the heightened awareness/vigilance, and our partners at @LASDHQ," police said in the tweet, which included the words "In custody" over Holder's face.
Nipsey and the man suspected of killing him knew each other, and the shooting appears to be the product of a personal dispute, Los Angeles police Chief Michel Moore told reporters Tuesday morning. 
Moore declined to elaborate on the feud between the two, saying he didn't want to jeopardize any potential prosecution, but he said the suspect -- who was identified via surveillance video and witnesses as Holder -- approached Nipsey and others multiple times, engaging them in conversation. 
At one point, Holder, 29, returned with a handgun and "purposely and repeatedly fired" at the men, injuring two of them and killing the rapper, he said. 
Rapper was more movement than musician
Though the rapper was a member of an arm of the Crips street gang and police believe Holder belongs to a gang as well, Moore declined to specify any gang affiliation and said the dispute between the two does not appear gang-related. 
Video shows shooting
The manhunt for Holder unfolded as surveillance video emerged showing the moment Nipsey and two others were shot Sunday afternoon. 
The Grammy-nominated artist was among four people standing between cars outside The Marathon Clothing store he owned in Los Angeles' Hyde Park neighborhood, video from a surveillance camera trained on the parking lot shows. 
It is not clear which of the four is Hussle, but they appear to be casually talking as others mill about in front of the store. A figure dressed in dark clothing appears to approach the four, and everyone scatters. 
Two of the people standing by the car don't get far. They fall to the ground. One of them, wearing a white hat and shirt, tries to get back up but promptly collapses, the video, which has no sound, shows. 
It is not clear if the figure in dark clothing is Holder, who police say is wanted in the homicide. 
Vigil goes awry
Late Monday, about 300 people gathered around a candlelight memorial in The Marathon Clothing parking lot, feet from where the rapper was shot, when a person with a gun spurred the mourners to take off in every direction, police said.
There were initial reports of gunshots, but police quickly knocked down those reports. Moore acknowledged that two women showed up at a hospital late Monday night saying they had been shot at the vigil, but he said one of his commanders was near the scene and heard no gunshots. 
"I'm lacking information that a shooting occurred," the chief said. 
The crowd fled, he said, after someone at the vigil produced a handgun and another person tried to disarm the individual. A stampede ensued. 
Los Angeles police spokeswoman Meghan Aguilar described it to CNN affiliate KCAL/KCBS as "absolutely chaotic, mass panic."
"When we were watching it from footage from overhead, it was literally people scattered in all directions," she said. 
The panic came about 8:15 p.m., Moore said, and "as (the crowd) fled, we had a series of falls and trips and injuries." One individual was stabbed in the melee, but police have no suspect, he said. 
Video from KCAL/KCBS shows mourners abruptly running through and around the candle-and-balloon memorial and into the street. Police with riot gear and batons begin forming containment lines. 
People carry away the injured as emergency responders tend to people on the ground, the affiliate video shows. 
Some present threw rocks and bottles at police officers, and an officer suffered a "serious cut" to his hand, requiring sutures, Moore said. At least one person was detained for disorderly conduct, Aguilar said. 
Nineteen people were transported to the hospital, most of them with trample injuries, the Los Angeles Fire Department said. Two suffered critical injuries, and two more were hurt seriously. One person was hit by a car, the department said. 
None of the injured people suffered gunshot wounds, Los Angeles police said. 
Police ID car and alleged shooter
The grainy video of Nipsey's shooting does not provide much in the way of detail, but police late Monday offered additional information about the shooting. 
At about 3:20 p.m. Sunday, the suspect walked up to the men standing in the parking lot and opened fire, police said. He then ran down an alley and jumped into the passenger side of a car driven by an unidentified woman, they said.  
Two people were transported to the hospital; one refused treatment at the scene, and Nipsey died from gunshots to the head and torso, authorities said. 
The 33-year-old rhymesmith was a mainstay of the Crenshaw District where he grew up. He owned businesses there, invested in the community and counted several Los Angeles rappers among his influences and collaborators. 
Nipsey Hussle and Lauren London, a hip-hop fairy tale
Two of his mixtapes -- "Slauson Boy Vol. 1" and "Crenshaw" -- took their names from the area. The Marathon Clothing store sits near West Slauson Avenue and Crenshaw Boulevard. Though Nipsey released several mixtapes independently or through his All Money In record label, his studio debut, "Victory Lap," dropped last year and was nominated for a Grammy.
Before his death, Nipsey, a member of the Rollin 60s Neighborhood Crips, had requested a meeting to discuss ways to mitigate gang violence, Los Angeles police Commissioner Steve Soboroff said Tuesday, sharing an email he received from the rapper and Jay-Z's Roc Nation. 
It said, "Our goal is to work with the department to help improve communication relationships, and work towards changing the culture and dialogue between LAPD and the inner city. We want to hear about your new programs, your goals for the department, as well as how we can help stop gang violence and help you help kids."
"The meeting will happen," Soboroff said. "It will happen when Roc Nation and Nipsey's family come together."
Editor's Note: This article contains references with graphic language
(CNN) - Hours after Nipsey Hussle was gunned down in the Hyde Park neighborhood, Los Angeles Police Commissioner Steve Soboroff announced that he had been scheduled to meet with the rapper. 
The Grammy-nominated rhymesmith, a member of the Rollin 60s Neighborhood Crips, had requested the meeting, along with Jay-Z's Roc Nation, the commissioner said. 
The reason? They wanted to speak with Soboroff and Los Angeles Police Chief Michel Moore "about ways he could help stop gang violence and help us help kids," Soboroff tweeted. "I'm so very sad."
Anyone familiar with Nipsey's woke brand of gangbanging wasn't surprised. While Crips and Bloods have provided great gangland fodder for Hollywood and other storytellers, Nipsey bucked the conventional trappings of gang life. 
He spoke out against rappers who would boast of purported gang affiliations to stunt or look cool -- not because he wished them any violence, but rather, to remind them that for too many young people, joining a gang was about survival. People had died over the colors they'd chosen. It wasn't something to dabble in, Nipsey would remind them. 
Legacy of bridge building
Yet for his unabashed affiliation, the 33-year-old worked to pave inroads, recording tracks with Blood-affiliated rappers The Game and YG of Compton and Jay Rock of Watts. When Nipsey dropped his long-awaited studio debut last year, The Game posted the cover to Instagram, along with his recollection of the first time the two met. 
"Never thought the young n***a that gave me his demo on Crenshaw at a red light would ever turn out to be one of my favorite West Coast MC's.... just like I told you that day when you handed it to me n***a, 'if you want it it's yours'.... proud of you homie."
Two days prior, when Cardi B caught flak for a Blood reference in an Instagram post, Nipsey came to her defense during an interview on a Los Angeles radio show, saying that there were certain things that Bloods and Crips might say to each other in private that they shouldn't say in public or in a song. 
"She should probably just correct, go public, and say, 'Look, this is how Bloods talk privately. We ain't mean no disrespect,'" he said. "That's a touchy thing. That's a delicate thing, and you gotta understand people are gonna be offended when you do that. You gotta know: L.A. -- this our culture. This is our lifestyle. This ain't aesthetic or fashion. You know, your granny'll tell you change the color of your shoestrings before you get out of the car."
Upon Nipsey's death, the "Bodak Yellow" rapper was among scores of entertainers posting tributes to him. 
"Rip to a real stand up guy! a great representation of positivity and change to the community," Cardi B wrote on Instagram. "May the Lord give your family strength. You can't kill love and you can't kill respect."
In one of his final tweets Friday, Nipsey posted a photo of himself in a denim jacket adorned with both red and blue kerchiefs, like those worn by the rival gangs, and in his last post, just hours before he was killed, he said, "Having strong enemies is a blessing."
Product of Crenshaw
It's poignant that Nipsey died after being shot in the head and torso in the parking lot of The Marathon Clothing "smartstore" he owned near the corner of Slauson and Crenshaw. The dark amalgam of circumstances seems to encapsulate much about his life. 
True to his art and his city, Nipsey regularly invoked his upbringing, beginning with his 2005 mixtape, "Slauson Boy Volume 1," and continuing through the eerily named three-volume "Bullets Ain't Got No Name." He dubbed his eighth mixtape, released in 2013, "Crenshaw," and priced it at $100 a pop. Jay-Z picked up a 100 of the 1,000 available copies. 
"I got an email that came through my team and it just was like, 'Roc Nation, on behalf of Jay Z wants to buy 100 units. Who do we pay? When can we get the shipment out?'" he told MTV News at the time. "They sent us $10,000. We sent them 100 CDs. ... I didn't get the chance to holler at Jay, but through his people he made it clear that he respects the move and everything, so I was just humbled by it."
Don't be fooled by the term "studio debut." Nipsey collaborated with the likes of Drake, Meek Mill and Rick Ross well before Atlantic Records published his acclaimed "Victory Lap" last year, earning him a Grammy nomination for best rap album (the prize went to Cardi B). For a decade and a half, Nip compiled a thick catalog of music, which he released on mixtapes he produced independently or through his All Money In record label, which he launched to maintain his creative freedom, he said. 
Though some music websites classify Nipsey's music as gangsta rap, his music spans multiple hip-hop genres, including the g-funk, or gangsta funk, sound of Dr. Dre fame that was ubiquitous to the streets of the Crenshaw District where Nipsey grew up in the 1990s. 
His lyrics did not fit into tidy genres, either. While he employed the bombast and braggadocio common to gangsta and other forms of rap, he also dealt in introspection a la the so-called conscious rappers such as Chance the Rapper and Talib Kweli. 
That was perhaps most apparent on the "Victory Lap" track, "Dedication," a collaboration with Kendrick Lamar, who himself has united Bloods and Crips through no less than his Top Dawg Entertainment. 
On the track, Nipsey rhymes, "Young black n***a trapped and he can't change it/Know he a genius, he just can't claim it/'Cuz they left him no platforms to explain it/He frustrated so he get faded, but deep down inside he know you can't fade him/How long should I stay dedicated? How long till opportunity meet preparation?/I need some real n***a reparations before I run up in your bank just for recreation."
A father and a businessman
Though he is best known for his music, he was a father as well -- to son, Kross, 2, with actor and longtime girlfriend Lauren London, and to daughter Emani from a previous relationship. 
As his moniker, sometimes stylized as Hu$$le, suggests, the Eritrean-American rapper born Ermias Davidson Asghedom was also an accomplished businessman. His ventures spanned from his music label and The Marathon Clothing store, to his Marathon Agency, a talent and marketing company, and his Proud 2 Pay campaign, a trailblazing means to distribute his music. 
Nipsey Hussle and Lauren London, a hip-hop fairytale
After failing to find a way to work with Epic Records, which released him in 2010, he tapped his wealth of social media followers -- which today number in the millions -- for the campaign, selling the aforementioned "Crenshaw" for a $100 apiece and 100 copies of his "Mailbox Money" mixtape for $1,000 each in a scheme that guaranteed a host of perks for buyers, including hearing "Victory Lap" for the first time with Nipsey himself. 
In 2013, he explained in a short YouTube documentary that he was aiming to upend a system in which controlling record labels acted as gatekeepers for young creatives trying to make names for themselves. 
"What else is n***as playing for if they don't want the ring or the crown? Labels know that, and they making it like the only way to that is through them," he said. "We got power, we got the internet, we got our people, and a n***a gonna shut down (the) industry, man. ... I'm Netflix. They're Blockbusters, know what I'm saying? ... Netflix shut their business down. It's over. They're bankrupt. It's a wrap. When's the last time you rented a video, bro?"
When he finally did ink the deal with Atlantic in 2017, he told Billboard that it was more about reach than racks. 
"I wanted to give that message the best chance to be heard and consumed on the highest level. That was my goal from the jump as All Money In took time to build its position in the hip-hop lane," he said. 
An 'inspiration to many'
But for all the money and music he leaves behind, perhaps his greatest mark will be his philanthropic work, which extended beyond his efforts to mitigate gang violence. 
Tapping the anticipation surrounding "Victory Lap" last year, Nipsey opened a workspace and science, technology, engineering and mathematics, or STEM, center that he described as a bridge between Silicon Valley and the inner city. He told the Los Angeles Times he hoped the center, named Vector 90, would give young people more options and opportunities than he had as a kid. 
"In our culture, there's a narrative that says, 'Follow the athletes, follow the entertainers,'" he told the paper. "That's cool, but there should be something that says, 'Follow Elon Musk, follow Zuckerberg.' I think that with me being influential as an artist and young and coming from the inner city, it makes sense for me to be one of the people that's waving that flag."
Upon his death, the paper further reported that Hussle loved his stomping ground in both word and deed, buying shoes for students, fixing playgrounds and basketball courts, helping to renovate an old roller rink, providing jobs and shelter for homeless residents, paying for funerals of those who couldn't afford them and investing in Destination Crenshaw, an art-and-culture project that celebrates Los Angeles' black history. Even his clothing store was part of a strip mall renovation that would include apartments for low-income families, the Times reported. 
That Nipsey was more movement than music was evident in the tributes that poured in from fans, hundreds of whom flocked to The Marathon Clothing store after he was shot, and from celebrities who noted that his legacy would be a layered one. They encouraged his fans to keep that legacy alive. 
Los Angeles County supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas called him an "inspiration to many," while Atlantic Records called him "an amazing father and a leader in his community" and actor Issa Rae said he inspired her "to invest and own in our communities."
J. Cole nodded to "what you did for the neighborhood," activist Colin Kaepernick pointed to Nipsey's "great work for the people" and Pharrell Williams said, "You were about something..positive and for your community in every chance you had to speak."
John Legend said he'd just spent Thursday with Nipsey filming a video for a song that they did with DJ Khaled. 
"We filmed in Inglewood, close to where he grew up. He was so gifted, so proud of his home, so invested in his community. Utterly stunned that he's gone so soon," Legend wrote. 
(CNN) - Music brought Nipsey Hussle together with his great love.
The rapper, who died Sunday after being shot in Los Angeles, was in a five-year relationship with model and actress Lauren London.
The couple shared a young son named Kross and recently opened up about their relationship in the March issue of GQ.
London told the magazine that their individual origin stories about how they began dating didn't match up.
"I did not slide into his DMs," she said. "My homeboy did...."
Nipsey Hussle, more of a movement than a musician
Though both agreed that it all started back in 2013 when London wanted to buy Nipsey's limited edition mixtape as a wrap present for her co-stars on the BET series "The Game."
It wasn't a cheap gift.
"The marketing for the mixtape was that we only made a thousand units and sold them for a hundred dollars apiece," Nipsey told GQ. "It was a scarcity model. Jay-Z bought a few copies, et cetera."
London got the mixtapes, started following Hussle on Instagram, he followed back and the rest became hip-hop history.
The pair have been known as one of the genre's more enduring love stories.
In fact, their GQ photo shoot -- which included a picture of London on a white horse with Hussle -- sparked engagement photo shoot rumors in January. 
London starred in the now cult classic film "ATL," and Hussle has been beloved as both a rapper and an activist dedicated to uplifting his south Los Angeles community.
He told GQ that his lady love sacrificed for their family. 
"Lauren was handpicked by John Singleton to do Snowfall. She read, got the part, shot the pilot...did stunts...this was her dream role," Nipsey said. "And then she got pregnant with our son. That was a really hard decision for her to make."
They formed a tight-knit family with their son, Hussle's daughter from a previous relationship and London's son, Cameron Carter, by rapper Lil Wayne.
The couple participated in a couple's quiz for GQ, which as of Monday had almost 3 million views on YouTube. 
Hussle revealed that they met for the first time in person at his store on Slauson and Crenshaw in Los Angeles and joked about the object of London's "celebrity crush." 
"I don't have a celebrity crush," she said. "I'm with my celebrity crush."
On Monday, there was an outpouring of support for London on social media.
"I don't know why I feel Nipsey Hussle's death so personally. But I can't even imagine how it feels genuinely knowing and loving him," one person tweeted. "I pray that God keeps Lauren London and all of his family and loved ones wrapped in his arms and covered in strength."
(CNN) - While celebrating her victory in becoming the first African-American woman picked to lead Chicago, Lori Lightfoot thanked the city and those who blazed the trail for her victory.
"We may be strangers but in this room, in this city we are all neighbors," she told a cheering crowd following her win. 
Lightfoot faced a historic runoff Tuesday against Toni Preckwinkle, who is also an African-American woman.  
"Now that it's over I know that we will work together for the city that we both love," Lightfoot said at her campaign celebration. "Today you did more than make history, you created a movement for change."
She told her followers they were going to remake Chicago, home to 2.7 million people.
"Now we're going to take the next steps together," she said. "Together we can and will finally put the interests of our people, all of our people, against  the interests of a powerful few."  
Her competitor vowed to keep working on issues important to her.
"This may not be the outcome we wanted but while I may be disappointed, I'm not disheartened," Preckwinkle told supporters after she called Lightfoot to congratulate her. 
Mayor Rahm Emanuel was not in the race, as he was not seeking a third term.
Lightfoot, 56, a former assistant US attorney, describes herself as "an out and proud black lesbian." When she is sworn in, she will be the first mayor in the Windy City who identifies as a lesbian.
"Out there tonight a lot of little girls and boys are watching. They're watching us. And they're seeing the beginning of something, well, a little bit different," Lightfoot told the crowd on Tuesday with a wry smile.
"They're seeing a city reborn. A city where it doesn't matter what color you are," she continued. "Where it doesn't matter who you love, just as long as you love with all your heart."
In the wake of the Laquan McDonald scandal -- in which a white police officer, Jason Van Dyke, shot the black teenager 16 times as he walked away from police -- Lightfoot was appointed by Emanuel to head the newly created police accountability task force.
Preckwinkle, 72, is a political insider who heads the Cook County Board and chairs the Cook County Democratic Party. She made education and a $15 minimum wage focal points of her campaign.
A Chicago Tribune report in January claimed that Preckwinkle hired the son of a powerful old-school alderman, Ed Burke, to a $100,000 a year job with the county. Burke was recently charged with attempted extortion after the FBI raided his offices in January.
In February's general election which had 14 candidates, Lightfoot and Preckwinkle were the top two vote-getters, which led to Tuesday's runoff. 
The next mayor will face issues like crime and police-community relations. 
"A new mayor with a plan for police reform and better police-community relations will enhance the quality of life in the city and encourage people -- especially young people who wish to start a family -- to move to the city," said Arthur Lurigio, a professor of psychology and criminal justice at Loyola University Chicago. "The perceptions that a new mayor creates about safety and policing could make the city a more attractive place to live and stop the outflow of residents."
Violent crime totals in Chicago have made headlines in recent years. In 2016, the city reported its highest number of homicides in two decades: 762.
But killings have dropped since then: 650 in 2017 and 550 in 2018.
Police have credited the drop in violence partly to hiring more police officers, and stronger community policing. The department added 1,161 officers in two years, exceeding a 2016 pledge made by Emanuel and police Superintendent Eddie Johnson to add 970.
(CNN) - Chicago elected Lori Lightfoot as its first black female mayor in a historic victory applauded beyond the nation's third-most populous city.
In the runoff Tuesday, Lightfoot ran against Toni Preckwinkle, who is also an African-American woman.  
"Now that it's over I know that we will work together for the city that we both love," Lightfoot said at her campaign celebration. "Today you did more than make history, you created a movement for change."
History in more ways than one
Lightfoot, 56, a former assistant US attorney, describes herself as "an out and proud black lesbian." When she is sworn in, she will be the first mayor in Chicago who identifies as a lesbian.
"Both the black community and LGBT community can be proud of her history-making victory tonight. All across our country, more and more black women are showing what they can do in positions of leadership," said London Breed, the first African-American woman elected mayor of San Francisco.
"Each of us who is elected opens the door for even more young girls and boys to follow in our paths. I'm excited what this election means for the people of Chicago and I want to wish the new Mayor of Chicago luck as she takes office," she added. 
Tributes poured in for the mayor-elect following the monumental win.
"Chicago just made history. Congratulations ... on your election as mayor," Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris tweeted. "Representation matters, and your leadership will pave the way for many more to come."
Female leaders congratulate mayor-elect 
New Orleans Mayor LaToya Cantrell,  who made history as the first woman to hold the post in her city, also shared her best wishes. 
"Congratulations to my new sister-Mayor  .... breaking another glass ceiling in Chicago and pointing the way forward. I look forward to working with you!" she tweeted. 
Mayor Muriel Bowser of Washington DC made history last year when she was re-elected in the nation's capital. On Tuesday night, she congratulated her new counterpart. 
"Historic night for Chicago and our nation!  ...  I look forward to working and leading together! #BlackWomenLead," she tweeted. 
Danica Roem, first person to identify as transgender in any US state legislature, described Lightfoot's election as "really phenomenal." 
Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan, who also identifies as a lesbian, applauded the victory.  
"Excited to welcome her as a fellow American mayor and work with her," she tweeted.  
National advocates for gay rights celebrated Lightfoot's victory. Human Rights Campaign said she's pledged to improve police training and investigate hate crimes, and address the needs of the city's LGBTQ community. 
Mayor Rahm Emanuel did not run because he's not seeking a third term. The general election in February had 14 candidates, with Lightfoot and Preckwinkle as the top two vote-getters.
(CNN) - Former Assistant US Attorney Lori Lightfoot made holding abusive officers accountable for their actions a bedrock of her campaign. 
In the wake of the Laquan McDonald scandal, Lightfoot, elected Tuesday to be the first African-American woman to be mayor of Chicago, was appointed by outgoing Mayor Rahm Emanuel to head the newly created police accountability task force.
Many of the panel's recommendations were similar to the findings in the US Justice Department report that found serious problems with the police department's handling of racism within its ranks. Under Lightfoot, the city replaced its widely criticized police oversight agency with a civilian body designed to have much more oversight over officers and their supervisors.
With many of the mayoral candidates promising they would fire current Police Superintendent Eddie Johnson after taking office, Lightfoot claims such a move might do more harm than good as the city approaches the summer months, when hotter weather traditionally brings spikes in violence. In the month of January, the city recorded the fewest number of murders in nine years, with 20 people killed, according to Anthony Guglielmi, chief communications officer for the Chicago Police Department.
Lightfoot, 56, grew up in Ohio and went to college at the University of Michigan. Then after two years as a legislative aide in Washington she went to law school at the University of Chicago. She has lived in the city for all but one year since 1986.
Lightfoot describes herself as "an out and proud black lesbian." When she is sworn in, she will be the first mayor in the Windy City who identifies as a lesbian. She and her spouse, Amy Eshleman, have a 10-year-old daughter.
Lightfoot also was a senior equity partner at a private law firm, was interim first deputy of the city's procurement department, was chief of staff and general counsel for the emergency management office and was chief administrator of the office of professional standards. 
This would be her first time to hold an elected office.
(CNN) - The collapse of a concrete beam from a bridge in Chattanooga, Tennessee was likely caused when a vehicle carrying an oversized load hit the bottom of the bridge, a state transportation official said Tuesday. 
The vehicle went under the bridge and sliced through some of the steel reinforcement strands in the exterior beam, Paul Degges, the department's chief engineer, told reporters. A concrete rail helped support the damaged beam but ultimately it collapsed, he said. 
"We don't believe that the failure of the beam was an issue with the design of the bridge or maintenance activity," Degges said.
He said officials don't know who hit the bridge. The department's cameras don't keep a recorded history of footage, he said. 
One person was injured after the concrete railing section fell from the bridge on Monday, shutting down two interstate ramps. 
The bridge collapse took place at the Interstate 75 North and I-24 West split, according to Chattanooga police. The railing from I-75 fell onto the I-24 ramp, according to the state DOT.
Chattanooga Mayor Andy Berke said on Twitter the I-75 and I-24 split is "one of the most heavily trafficked intersections in the country." 
TDOT tweeted that permanent repairs "will take weeks." 
The Tennessee Highway Patrol said Monday evening the I-24 westbound lanes at the interstate split had been reopened. TDOT spokeswoman Jennifer Flynn said crews opened one lane of I-75 southbound Monday night.
A 'once in a lifetime accident' 
The Chattanooga Fire Department shared photos that showed a blue car crushed by giant slabs of concrete. 
TDOT officials told CNN affiliate WTVC the bridge collapse was a "once in a lifetime accident." 
The bridge was built in 1959 and was last inspected in July 2018, according to a TDOT National Bridge Inventory and Appraisal Report obtained by WTVC. 
Aside from being one of the busiest intersections in the country, as the city's mayor said, former Tennessee Transportation Commissioner John Schroer said in November 2017 that the intersection was "probably the worst intersection we got in the state at the moment."
A spate of recent overpass problems
The Chattanooga accident follows two recent high-profile collapses of overpasses. 
In March 2018, a newly installed pedestrian bridge fell onto a busy street at Miami International University, killing six people.
And in March 2017, part of Interstate 85 in Atlanta collapsed after a massive fire broke out beneath the overpass. No one was killed nor injured. 
(CNN) - New polls released after special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation ended show Americans are split on major aspects of the probe and are feeling more conflicted about it than they previously were.
But despite muddied waters regarding the investigation, polling has shown that some trends continue to bear out: Americans say the report and its findings aren't going to change their minds about their 2020 votes or Trump's approval rating. 
Americans are split on major points
A new Washington Post-Schar School poll released Saturday also shows that slightly more than half of Americans accept that Trump's campaign did not criminally conspire with the Russian government to win, and another 41% don't accept that conclusion.
The Washington Post poll was completed in the wake of Attorney General William Barr sending Congress a four-page summary of Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 election. That probe also investigated if there was any connection between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Barr quoted Mueller as saying the "investigation did not establish" collusion between the Kremlin and Trump's campaign.
The Post poll showed Americans were split on whether House Democrats should continue to investigate whether Trump had obstructed justice in the investigation. Barr quoted Mueller as saying his "report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him." Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein wrote that the evidence in Mueller's report "is not sufficient to establish" obstruction of justice.
Americans tended to be split as to whether Barr's decision was appropriate -- 39% said it was, because of his authority as attorney general, and 41% said it wasn't, because he had criticized Mueller's obstruction inquiry before he had taken his position. 
After the release of the memo, Americans are still mostly split on whether Trump committed any wrongdoing.
An NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist poll released Friday and conducted after the memo had been released showed 56% of adults think questions still exist about whether Trump committed any wrongdoing. A little more than a third of adults said the report's findings clear Trump of wrongdoing.
Similarly, a CBS News poll done after the memo was released found 36% of adults said it's too soon to say if the Mueller report has cleared Trump of wrongdoing. A little more than a third said Trump has been cleared and 23% said he has not been cleared of wrongdoing.
The NPR/PBS/Marist poll also showed adults are split about whether Congress should keep investigating the question of obstruction of justice and whether it should continue to hold hearings. About a quarter of adults say Trump did something illegal in his dealings with Russia and Russian President Vladimir Putin, a third say he did something unethical and 35% say he's done nothing wrong.
Shifting attitudes
A CNN poll taken before the Mueller investigation ended found a majority who reported that the issue was a serious matter that should be fully investigated, raising the question as to whether Americans consider Mueller's report "fully investigated." The split in the Washington Post-Schar poll shows that some may, but some may not. 
An NBC/Wall Street Journal poll released Sunday found fewer Americans who said the Mueller investigation has given them more doubts about Trump's presidency, finding shifting views on Trump, the Russia investigation and the future of his presidency.
The NBC/WSJ poll found 36% of Americans said Mueller's investigation has given them more doubts about Trump's presidency, which is down from 48% in February. According to NBC/WSJ, most of that shift came from Democrats -- 61% expressed more doubts as a result of the investigation, down from 82% in February.
Democrats, for one, aren't very happy with how Mueller's report shook out: 63% of them said they aren't satisfied with its conclusions, according to the Post poll. Republicans tend to be more content, as 79% said they are satisfied with Mueller's findings as summarized by the Barr memo. Democrats tended to widely approve of Mueller's investigation in polling conducted before the investigation ended.
Points of agreement remain
The NBC/WSJ poll showed Trump's approval rating has remained relatively steady through the release of the memo, as 43% said they approved of the job the President is doing and 53% disapprove. This is within the 3.1 percentage point sampling margin for error on the poll in February, when 46% approved of his job performance.
In the Post poll, half of Americans said the findings of Mueller's investigation make no difference in their votes in next year's presidential election, which was similar to a CNN poll by SSRS last week conducted after Barr's memo was released. In that poll, 13% said Mueller's findings could sway their decisions about whom to support in 2020, either for Trump or against him. A combined 86% said the investigation won't make a difference in their votes. 
The NBC/WSJ poll and the Washington Post-Schar poll also showed Americans generally agree that Congress shouldn't begin impeachment proceedings to remove Trump from office. In the Post poll, 54% said impeachment proceedings should not be started, and 47% said the same in the NBC/WSJ poll. The NBC/WSJ poll included an option to continue investigating to see if there is enough evidence to hold impeachment hearings in the future (33% chose this option), drawing some numbers away from those who thought there shouldn't be any hearings. 
The NBC/WSJ poll was done March 23-27, with questions related to the Barr memo asked March 25-27. The poll surveyed 1,000 people and the margin of error is 3.1 percentage points.
The Washington Post-Schar School poll was done March 26-29 using a random sample of 640 adults. The margin of error is 4.5 percentage points.
The CBS poll was conducted March 25-26 among 1,0002 adults nationwide. It has a margin of error of 4 percentage points.
The NPR/PBS/Marist poll was conducted between March 25-27 among 938 adults nationwide. It has a margin of error of 3.9 percentage points.
Washington  (CNN) - President Donald Trump's attorney Rudy Giuliani said Tuesday that unlike Trump, he did not think special counsel Robert Mueller had acted honorably during his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.
"I would have to disagree with my client on that," Giuliani said on CNN's "The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer."
Giuliani suggested the reason for the difference in their assessments of Mueller could be that the former New York mayor was "in the trenches more" than Trump. Giuliani said he had a "mixed view" of Mueller's approach. 
"I think that it's almost a Jekyll and Hyde situation," Giuliani said, praising the special counsel for disputing reports about Trump's former attorney Michael Cohen and slamming him for the treatment of Trump's former campaign chief Paul Manafort.
Giuliani's comments broke with Trump's position from a day prior. Asked on Monday if Mueller had acted honorably, Trump said, "Yes, he did," offering rare praise for the special counsel he had railed against constantly for months. 
Later in Tuesday's interview, Giuliani said he knew Mueller and that aside from his criticism at the start of the conversation, he had "a good view of him, and everybody makes mistakes." 
Giuliani went on to differ with Jay Sekulow, another of Trump's attorneys, on the question of potentially releasing the President's written testimony to Mueller. 
Sekulow told CNN on Monday that he would not want to release the written answers, while Giuliani said Tuesday that the answers were truthful and he could be open to the testimony going public.
"There's nothing in there that I'd have any problem with," Giuliani said when asked about releasing the testimony. 
He continued to dismiss questions about contact between Trump's associates and 2016 campaign with Russia, repeatedly emphasizing Attorney General William Barr's summary of the Mueller report, which said the investigation had not found that the campaign or associates conspired with Russia. 
Asked if there was an innocent explanation why so many Trump associates were known to have had contacts with Russia during the campaign, Giuliani said, "It wasn't that many." 
After Blitzer noted that some 16 associates had had Russian contacts, Giuliani replied, "There were probably 50 that were meeting with people from Great Britain or people from France."
(CNN) - Top House Democrats said Tuesday that Attorney General William Barr does not deserve the benefit of the doubt when it comes to special counsel Robert Mueller's report. 
Reps. Adam Schiff of California, who chairs the House Intelligence Committee, and Jerry Nadler of New York, who chairs the House Judiciary Committee, argued that Barr had been put in place as attorney general to protect President Donald Trump, and said Congress must see the entire Mueller report. 
"If he came to the job clean, without any history in this investigation, I would say, yes, give him the benefit of the doubt. But he didn't," Schiff told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on "The Situation Room."
He said Barr "wrote a 19-page legal memo, which was basically a job application, saying, if you pick me for your AG, I will have your back on the obstruction of justice case. And that's exactly what he's done."
In June 2018, Barr, who was a private citizen at the time, authored a memo saying he thought the obstruction investigation was "fatally misconceived." 
Last month, Barr submitted to Congress his summary of the main conclusions from Mueller's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election. In the letter, Barr quoted Mueller as saying the report did not establish that Trump's campaign or associates had conspired with Russia. Barr wrote that Mueller did not have sufficient evidence to establish obstruction of justice, but that Mueller wrote that his report did not exonerate the President.
Barr said last week that Mueller's report will be released to Congress and the public by "mid-April, if not sooner." Barr also offered to testify shortly after the report is released. 
Schiff said that Barr said during his Senate confirmation process that "he would not commit even to following the advice of ethics lawyers. You cannot blind yourself to that conflict of interest." 
"So, no, I'm not prepared to give him the benefit of the doubt," Schiff said. "I'm prepared to hold him to his commitment during the confirmation that he would be as transparent as law and policy would allow. He's not doing that."
Nadler echoed Schiff's comments and told CNN that Barr "deserves no benefit of the doubt," also citing his "19-page memo saying that the whole investigation was wrong to start with."  
"The attorney general is an agent of the President. He auditioned for his job by saying that this kind of investigation was wrong and that the President could not possibly commit obstruction of justice, which is a rather extreme legal view," Nadler told Blitzer. 
Nadler said Barr "got the job in order to protect the President," adding that Barr "was brought in to protect him personally. He's a political appointee." 
Nadler said Democrats are asking that the "entire Mueller report and all the underlying documentations be given to Congress." 
"The President apparently forgets that Ken Starr's report, all 400-and-some-odd pages of it ... had already been given to the entire Congress, which is what we're asking now," Nadler said. 
(CNN) - Despite the conclusion of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation last month, the name and country of the mystery corporation still challenging a Mueller subpoena from last summer will stay secret, a DC District Court judge decided Monday. 
The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press asked for release of the the identity of the corporation, which is owned by an unnamed foreign government and tied to "foreign interference in the 2016 presidential election and potential collusion in those efforts by American citizens," Chief Judge Beryl Howell previously wrote. The law firm Alston & Bird, which has previously worked for a Russian oligarch and a contractor of the Russian government, is representing the corporation. 
In the 12-page opinion, Howell provided her assessment of the laws dictating grand jury secrecy, a topic she's been asked to consider in several recent requests to make more information public from the Mueller investigation, including parts of the Mueller report. 
Howell notes that the grand jury proceedings that involve the unnamed foreign-government-owned company continue, and that the law protects the company's desire to withhold its identity. 
"At bottom, Local Criminal Rule 6.1 provides the Reporters Committee with access to the briefs and transcripts, with any matters occurring before the grand jury redacted. The First Amendment and common law do not," Howell wrote Monday.
The company appealed to the Supreme Court to maintain its secrecy, only to be denied last month. The corporation still appears to be accruing $50,000 a day fines for noncompliance, after lower courts said the company must turn over the information and imposed escalating penalties. 
Howell will, however, make public more redacted documents and transcriptions in the case attempting to throw out Mueller's subpoena, which began last August. Her move to unseal a tranche of six opinions in February revealed that the company's records are essential to an ongoing grand jury investigation -- Howell barred earlier this year Alton & Bird from making any public statements on the case.
This story has been updated. 
Editor's Note: Michael Zeldin, a CNN legal analyst, has served as a federal prosecutor in the Criminal Division of the  US Department of Justice and was a special counsel to then-Assistant Attorney General Robert Mueller. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion at CNN.
(CNN) - US Attorney General William Barr's March 24 letter to Congress summarizing the principal conclusions reached by special counsel Robert  Mueller appears to have gone well beyond what the special counsel regulations authorize.
On their own initiative, and with no apparent authority in the regulations, Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein determined that the evidence that the special counsel provided was not sufficient to establish that President Donald Trump committed an obstruction of justice offense.
In his four-page letter, Barr explained that the special counsel's decision to describe the facts without reaching any legal conclusion left it to the Attorney General to determine whether the President's conduct constituted a crime.
Barr's action, however, appears to be in direct contravention of the letter and spirit of the special counsel regulations -- that is, to have a special counsel who is not a political appointee and who is independent of the Department of Justice make the decision whether to charge a crime.
This independence is especially important, where, as here, the attorney general appears to have had a predetermined point of view on whether Trump's actions could amount to obstruction of justice. (Barr, as a private citizen, wrote a memorandum to Justice Department officials in June 2018, saying that Mueller's obstruction inquiry was "fatally misconceived.")
Mueller's decision that he lacked sufficient evidence to make a criminal charging decision, however, is a decision. There is nothing in the special counsel regulations that would appear to authorize the attorney general to make another decision.
The appropriate course of action would have been for Barr not to have made a determination about whether Trump could or would be prosecuted for obstruction. 
Instead, Barr should have transmitted Mueller's full report to Congress for Congress to consider the next step -- whether the evidence that Mueller assembled may be worthy of evaluation in a potential impeachment investigation. Lack of a determination of criminal liability does not resolve the question whether the President's conduct and intentions constituted an impeachable abuse of the powers of his office. 
 Barr's plan for the Mueller report
On March 29, 2019, Barr indicated in a follow-up letter to Congress that he was preparing to release a redacted version of the Mueller report in the coming weeks.
Specifically, Barr wrote that the Department of Justice, with the assistance of Mueller, were in the process of identifying and redacting: (1) grand jury material subject to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6 (e) that by law cannot be made public; (2) material the intelligence community identifies as potentially compromising sensitive sources and methods; (3) material that could affect other ongoing matters, including those that the special counsel has referred to other department offices; and (4) information that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties.
While a welcome development, the damage has been done: Barr's March 24 "no obstruction" finding has allowed the President to argue to the American public (albeit falsely) that Mueller, rather than Barr and Rosenstein, concluded that Trump did not commit obstruction of justice. In turn, this has provided the President and his allies with the political basis for declaring a complete victory, for further attacking the integrity of the special counsel investigation, and for laying the groundwork for an attack on congressional inquiries.
What Barr can do to remedy the harm
To help remedy his situation, Barr should go beyond releasing to the public the redacted version of Mueller's report. He should:
     • Issue a press release clearly reiterating that he and Rosenstein determined that the President's conduct was not criminal obstruction of justice and that Mueller did not make such a finding. (This is necessary because of the way that Trump and his allies have mischaracterized Mueller's obstruction of justice findings.)
     • Amend the special counsel regulations to allow specifically the Justice Department to release the full special counsel's report and the underlying documentation to Congress (something that the President and the Justice Department can do unilaterally).
     • Declassify all but the most sensitive classified information included in Mueller's report and the supporting documents (all classified information and documents should be assembled in a classified appendix to send to the House Intelligence Committee).
     • Request the grand jury supervisory judge to release grand jury protected testimony and documents to Congress, with appropriate protections, as was done successfully in the Ken Starr independent counsel investigation.
     • Make available to the House and Senate oversight committees all government witnesses who appeared before the grand jury. 
     • As represented in Barr's March 29 letter, decline to invoke executive privilege, consistent with the approach taken by President Ronald Reagan in the Iran-Contra independent counsel investigation and President Richard Nixon in Watergate. 
 
Conclusion
Until the full evidence that led Barr to usurp the prerogatives of the special counsel are made available to Congress and the American public, Congress and the public will not know whether Barr made a mistake in substituting his judgment for Mueller's, acted with political motives or acted for other reasons. 
Barr's public testimony before Congress after the special counsel's report is released hopefully will shed light on his decision to make the no-obstruction call.
(CNN) - A women's hospital in California used hidden cameras to secretly record approximately 1,800 patients without their consent, according to a lawsuit.
The recordings filmed activity in three labor and delivery rooms at the Women's Center at Sharp Grossmont Hospital in La Mesa, California, over a period of more than 11 months beginning in summer 2012.
Captured in the images: partially robed women on operating tables, cesarean sections, and newly delivered babies. At times, according to the lawsuit filed last week, the women's genital areas were visible, as were their faces.
"It's the most fundamental breach of privacy," said Allison Goddard, a lawyer representing more than 80 women who say they were filmed. 
Goddard says she's obtained five videos from the hospital and has requested about 100 more. 
"I have seen, for example, a video of a C-section, and it shows the patient being rolled into the operating room. It shows the patient being prepped for surgery. You could see her hospital gown tucked up under her breasts. You could see her bare belly," Goddard said.
She says the video goes on to show the birth of the baby and a nurse massaging the woman's uterus to expel any blood clots.
"It's horrifying to think that, especially in today's day and age of the ubiquity of videos on the internet, if one of those videos were to get in the wrong hands, there's no controlling it. It takes your own medical care outside your own control," Goddard said.
The lawsuit states the recordings were stored on desktop computers, some without the need for a password. It further states the hospital "destroyed at least half the recordings but cannot say when or how it deleted those files and cannot confirm that it took the appropriate steps to ensure the files were not otherwise recoverable."
The women are suing over the harm they say they suffered, including anguish, horror, humiliation, depression and feelings of powerlessness. They are seeking monetary damages from the hospital. 
Goddard says the women were notified about what happened to them by a third-party administrator after a nine-month court fight.
The hidden cameras
Why would a hospital place hidden cameras in three of its most private areas?
According to a legal document prepared by the hospital in a medical board case against a doctor, it was trying to catch a thief.
The filing states that in or around May 2012, drugs were disappearing from medical carts in operating rooms, so hospital security installed motion-detecting cameras on the carts that captured images whenever anyone entered the room.
Carlisle Lewis, Sharp Healthcare's senior vice president and general counsel, acknowledges in the document that "some of the video clips depict patients in their most vulnerable state, under anesthesia, exposed and undergoing medical procedures."
According to the document, on multiple occasions, the cameras captured a doctor removing drugs from the carts, including the powerful anesthetic propofol, and placing the items into a shirt pocket.
"Although the cameras were intended to record only individuals in front of the anesthesia carts removing drugs, others, including patients and medical personnel in the operating rooms, were at times visible to the cameras and recorded," John Cihomsky, Sharp Healthcare's vice president of public relations and communications, said in a statement. 
'The hospital is a privacy zone'
Health care ethicists criticize the hospital's use of hidden cameras.
"These are extreme, horrific violations. And it's exactly why the hospital is a privacy zone," said Art Caplan, head of the Division of Medical Ethics at the New York University School of Medicine. "There are a very long list of reasons why taping, recording, videoing for anything other than medical or treatment purposes has to be strictly off-limits, because you're trying to protect people who can't protect themselves."
Caplan says drug theft is a huge problem for hospitals and it's often investigated, but the investigations are usually coordinated with law enforcement. Sharp Grossmont Hospital confirmed that they hadn't worked with law enforcement in this case.
"It may be a noble thing to try and figure out how drugs are being diverted, but set it up with the appropriate legal authorities," Caplan said. "It can't be just an internal quality control activity. If you want to get people not to trust health care, this is a great way to do it."
Cihomsky said the surveillance methods were used for only that particular investigation and have not been used again. He said that the case remains ongoing and that the hospital was unable to comment further about the matter. 
"We sincerely regret that our efforts to ensure medication security may have caused distress to those we serve," he said. 
San Francisco  (CNN Business) - The American Civil Liberties Union Foundation of Northern California has filed a civil complaint on behalf of an Apple employee who was detained by US Customs and Border Protection. 
Andreas Gal, who wrote a Medium post about his experience, was detained at San Francisco International Airport on November 29, according to the complaint. The US citizen was returning from a business trip to Europe when he says he was interrogated and asked to unlock his employer-issued smartphone and laptop for inspection. Gal, concerned about violating non-disclosure agreements he'd signed with Apple, asked to consult with either his employer or an attorney. 
The complaint says that at that point the CBP officers "retaliated" by telling Gal he was "committing a federal crime" and revoking his Global Entry status. Global Entry is a program offered by CBP that pre-approves low-risk travelers and gives them expedited clearance to enter the United States. Members of the paid service enter the United States using automatic kiosks at select airports. (Gal used the kiosk initially but was directed to speak with a customs officer.)
Gal told CNN Business that they did not gain entry to his devices.
The complaint, filed with the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, asks for an investigation into whether CBP's interrogation and search violated Gal's First and Fourth Amendment rights. It also wants a review of CBP's policies to see if they violate the US Constitution and laws. 
The Department of Homeland Security, which oversees CBP, declined to comment on pending litigation. 
Gal told CNN Business that he reached out to the ACLU after the incident because he was unsure of his rights and wanted clarity about what was legal.
"When I was denied the right to an attorney, I was wondering, 'Do they have the right to do this? To accuse me of a crime and deny me of an attorney?'" he said. 
"I've left the US probably a hundred times for work. I have no idea what caused me to be pulled over. I have traveled all my life and have never been asked more than, 'What's your name?' 'Where are you coming from?'"
Gal said the only thing he's changed recently is become more publicly outspoken against the Trump administration. 
Gal said he was also repeatedly asked about the work he did as chief technology officer for his previous employer, Mozilla, a company committed to open technology and online privacy. 
Apple and Mozilla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
A statement put out by the ACLU of Northern California describes Gal as an "outspoken proponent of online privacy, an opponent of warrantless mass surveillance, and a strong opponent of the current administration's policies."
William Freeman, senior counsel at the ACLU of Northern California, said in a statement that "CBP's policies lack protections for First Amendment rights by allowing interrogation and device searches that may be based on a traveler's political beliefs, activism, nation of origin, or identity."
The amount of information contained on electronic devices is another area of concern. Jacob Snow, a staff attorney at the ACLU of Northern California, said "border patrol agents should not be able to access this data without a search warrant."
Gal said the incident was "very intimidating" and that he was questioned by three customs officials, who were wearing bulletproof vests and were armed.
"I want to know if I was targeted for my political viewpoints," he said. "I'm not a fearful person, but it's quite terrifying to go across the border now."
Gal said he now has lawyers on call when he reenters the country and checks in with someone when going through customs. 
"I'm a super boring, middle-aged, middle class, white tech executive," he said. "One of the reasons to do this publicly is to show that anyone can be subject to this."
(CNN) - It turns out that Donald Trump alone can't fix it.
The President's chaos theory of management, rule by threats, focus on pleasing his political base and policy-lite sloganeering are being exposed as ill-suited to effective governance as the nation wrestles with two perennial controversies given new life this week: health care and immigration.
With a bewildering avalanche of tweets and comments in recent days, Trump has sent his surprised aides scurrying to understand his intentions and assess the implications of his ad hoc policy making.
The tumult has strained an unorthodox and rudimentary policy-making process, highlighted confusion in the administration and government agencies, and left his own staffers admitting they have no idea what the commander in chief will do next.
In the slimmed-down West Wing, the struggle to contain or prepare for the reverberations of Trump's impulses seems to have replaced the rampant backbiting that went on before senior officials, like former chief of staff John Kelly, who tried to impose discipline and cohesion left.
Trump's outbursts in recent days also forced his Republican allies on Capitol Hill to struggle to dissuade him from the implications of his actions -- over his threat to close the US-Mexico border and igniting of a new legislative battle over Obamacare.
Often, the President appears to react in the moment to a problem, adopting a position that gets him through a photo op or to the end of the day -- even though he's weighing in on issues that deeply affect people's lives and in normal administrations would merit days of strategizing.
For example, a Justice Department decision last week to back a court challenge seeking to eradicate Obamacare -- a clear play to Trump's base -- quickly morphed into a 2020 campaign gift for Democrats. Trump, apparently stung by a political backlash, then asked the Senate GOP to make another bid to replace Obamacare before the election. But Republican lawmakers, who have no appetite for any new and draining effort to make up for their failure to kill off the law, spent the weekend talking the President down, leading to his vow to tackle the issue after what he sees as his certain re-election.
"He has some big ideas and to his credit wants to solve problems. That's what leaders do," Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota said Tuesday.
"But you run into that wall of reality at some point, and, I think, trying to convey what the obstacles are to getting done what he wants done, done in the next two years, is something a number of our members conveyed to him."
By Tuesday, it was as if last week never happened: "I wanted to delay it myself," Trump insisted to reporters, before touting a Republican health care plan that at this point seems mostly to be a mirage.
"The health care is good, really good. ... It's much better than Obamacare."
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was asked whether he and the President were still at odds on health care. "Not any longer," the Kentucky Republican said with a smile.
But the climbdown did not head off a potential crisis, since if the Supreme Court takes up the case backed by the Justice Department and rules Obamacare unconstitutional -- likely next year, months before the election -- millions of Americans could lose their policies in a health care Armageddon, with the GOP committed to not providing a replacement until 2021 at the earliest.
This is just one example of how Trump's impromptu method causes confusion, catches even his allies flatfooted and often seeds future chaos.
Border brinkmanship 
A similar process is playing out over the President's threat to shut the southern border over a spike in asylum claims that is overloading the system.
It's an irresistible play for Trump, as many of his supporters sincerely believe his graphic claims that America is being overrun by a tide of criminal migrants. 
It's yet another example of how the President uses vehement threats of terrible consequences that could hurt everyone -- against Mexico over its policing of migrant caravans and against Democrats demanding immediate concessions on immigration -- to try to fulfill his goals.
But even members of Trump's own administration have warned that shutting the border could be catastrophic, biting deeply into trade, shuttering the automobile industry and quickly causing shortages of fruits and vegetables at shops all over America that could turn into a huge political problem for the President.
McConnell is again being called in to cool things down.
"Closing down the border would have potentially catastrophic economic impact on our country, and I would hope we would not be doing that sort of thing," McConnell said on Tuesday.
His comments were reminiscent of his warnings to Trump before the President initiated the longest government shutdown in history in December, apparently fearing that his base -- amplified by the criticism from conservative media -- would not want him climbing down on a demand that Congress fund his border wall.
McConnell also warned that Trump's plan -- which the President eventually followed through on -- to declare a national emergency in order to divert financing for other projects to wall construction was not a good idea either.
The wily Senate majority leader could not stop Trump then, so it's not clear he can do so now, especially since the President acknowledged the economic cost of a border shutdown -- and suggested he was ready to inflict it on Americans for a deeper purpose.
"We have to have security in this country. That's more important than trade," Trump said.
Still, the President did open a face-saving way out for himself by claiming -- without offering any evidence -- that for the first time in "decades" Mexico had started to apprehend "thousands of people" on its territory from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras.
Spinning wins out of losses
This presidency is so unusual that it's likely that if Trump does step back from his threat about the border he won't see it as an embarrassing erasure of a line in the sand.
That's because often, for Trump, having a fight is a political win in itself. It galvanizes his supporters, allows him to burnish his tough-guy credentials and often ends -- like the partial government shutdown -- with him spinning an alternative reality of victory.
With Trump, the chaos is the point. Complaints about tumult from the media and professional politicians just cement his credentials as the disruptor in chief. This kind of discombobulation is what he promised to bring to Washington and why his die-hard supporters love to see him tearing at the institutions of governance and a political establishment they disdain.
But Trump's reliance on governing for the sizable minority of Americans who elected him, and who he needs to come out in fired-up droves next year, has necessarily limited his ability to accomplish the things he wants to do in Washington.
The GOP failed to eradicate Obamacare partly because it had few credible alternatives while it retained a monopoly on power on Capitol Hill, but also because the President was unable to lead his troops to victory.
And despite Trump's claim Tuesday that he could fix the immigration crisis in 45 minutes, the polarization on Capitol Hill has meant there have been few real advances toward solving genuine problems on this issue since he has been President.
Immigration and health care cannot be overhauled without Democratic and Republican buy-in. But Trump has failed to create conditions that could foster such an unlikely compromise. Democrats have also dug in their heels, but the presidency comes with extra power -- and extra responsibilities.
The previous two presidents -- George W. Bush and Barack Obama -- failed to overhaul immigration too. But at times under Trump there have been signs that a deal is possible -- to tighten borders, ease the plight of people brought illegally to the US as kids and pour resources into dealing with problems like a glut of asylum claims. But the President, more concerned about politics than a governing legacy, has pulled back.
Trump's inability, given his combative campaigning style, to persuade those who don't agree means he has little option but to rely on threats and coercion to get his way.
However, it is beginning to look like such an approach will leave him frustrated and with a legacy devoid of many significant legislative accomplishments. It will also raise questions about the central pillar of his outsider appeal, the "I alone can fix it" message around which he built his 2016 Republican National Convention speech.
For Trump's supporters, such critiques miss the point -- and fail to take into account successes like the passage of the biggest tax overhaul bill in decades, along with his fulfilled promises to build a conservative Supreme Court majority and pull out of international agreements like the Paris climate accord and the Iran nuclear deal.
But as this week's fights over Obamacare and the border show, it's also a recipe for more months of perpetual crises and political stalemate that are likely to stretch right up to the 2020 election, and possibly beyond.
(CNN) - Close the border! End Obamacare! Cut off Puerto Rico! 
They're the catchy, simple declarations that President Donald Trump has built his presidency on, in public remarks and on Twitter. But amid the daily dramatics it's easy to forget that the things he actually does have serious consequences for real people in their real lives.
This week we've heard that Trump is seriously considering closing the border with Mexico to stop asylum seekers. He recently endorsed overturning Obamacare in the federal courts, without having a replacement plan ready to go. He opposes additional disaster relief money for Puerto Rico because he doesn't feel as much gratitude coming from the island as he does from Florida or Texas or Nebraska, which voted for him in 2016.
Closing the border
"Security is more important to me than trade," Trump said during an appearance in the Oval Office Tuesday. "So we're going to have a secure border."
Border security has long been Trump's signature issue. He's fueled fear of immigrants and demonized Mexico as a threat to American jobs. His efforts to build a wall have stalled in Congress. He's tightened regulations, separated children from their families, dispatched the national guard and yet the number of families trying to enter the US has dramatically increased in the past year.
The alarming growth in asylum seekers is clearly a problem that must be addressed. But few think it's likely to be stopped by closing the border, as the President is considering. And closing the border will only move the humanitarian crisis -- whole families with kids penned together and sleeping out in the open as Customs and Border Protection facilities fill up -- south, back into Mexico, where there are even fewer resources to deal with it.
As it stands, many undocumented immigrants are being released into the US. Meanwhile, CBP has said it is at "critical capacity levels cross the southwest border" and "cannot support this dramatic increase in apprehensions of family units and unaccompanied children."
All of those elements swirl together in Trump's head and the idea of closing the border is what emerges. 
No matter that the billions in commerce is the lifeblood of whole chunks of the US economy. Carmakers, farmers, beer brewers -- they're all unhappy, as are the thousands of people who cross the US border with Mexico every day to work or attend school.
White House staffers admit they're still unsure whether he'll follow through with threats to close the border or at least dramatically slow traffic in order to stop the flow of families passing through Mexico from Central America. Top economic adviser Larry Kudlow said in a CNBC interview that he was exploring options to let truck traffic continue, to avoid hurting the economy. 
Ending Obamacare
In a series of three tweets Monday night, Trump dismissed the idea of working with Democrats to pass health care reform, pledging instead to take it back up if he wins in 2020.
Here's what he wrote:
"Everybody agrees that ObamaCare doesn't work. Premiums & deductibles are far too high - Really bad HealthCare! Even the Dems want to replace it, but with Medicare for all, which would cause 180 million Americans to lose their beloved private health insurance. The Republicans..... ...are developing a really great HealthCare Plan with far lower premiums (cost) & deductibles than ObamaCare. In other words it will be far less expensive & much more usable than ObamaCare. Vote will be taken right after the Election when Republicans hold the Senate & win..........back the House. It will be truly great HealthCare that will work for America. Also, Republicans will always support Pre-Existing Conditions. The Republican Party will be known as the Party of Great HealtCare. Meantime, the USA is doing better than ever & is respected again!"
It's true that Democrats are currently split over whether to push a complete re-make of the health  system with a government-run program in the mold of Medicare or to push a public addition to the Affordable Care Act. But no Democrats are pushing the repeal of Obamacare without a path forward. 
The true bottom line is that Trump's administration -- over the objections of his attorney general and HHS secretary -- has joined a lawsuit actively seeking to overturn the health care law as soon as possible. But Republicans, after Trump's tweet, aren't actively seeking a way to fill the void that decision could leave. If the courts make a decision, it could leave many many many Americans in the lurch. The move led two Republican state attorneys general -- from Ohio and Montana -- to submit briefs defending the law. They joined health advocacy groups like AARP and others in supporting it.
It's not just the many millions who obtained health insurance through a private market exchange or Medicaid who would be affected. As CNN and others have reported, the Affordable Care Act has completely remade elements of the American health care system that touch everyone.
And many of the people who still don't have health insurance are undocumented immigrants, according to health insurers. But Trump's political strategy to attack the US Census and add a citizenship question many think will drive down response rates, means those people could effectively disappear from the population after next year's decennial census.
Trump's apparent decision to punt until after the election gives Republicans on Capitol Hill some breathing room. It also ensures the issue of health care, which is of the utmost importance to American voters, will drive the conversation heading into 2020.
Aid for Puerto Rico
In another series of tweets, Trump explained his opposition to new disaster funding for Puerto Rico and he criticized Democrats on Capitol Hill, blaming them for opposing a bill from Senate Republicans that would have given new relief money for Midwestern states. 
But it was dueling partisan opposition to separate proposals in the Senate that stood in the way of new money being allocated on Capitol Hill Wednesday. Democrats opposed a Senate bill that allocated billions for natural disaster relief, but only $600 million in new food relief funding to help Puerto Rico, which is still dealing with devastation after hurricanes in 2017. Republicans opposed a House bill that gave more money to Puerto Rico. The House bill was passed in January, before flooding hit the Midwest. 
Trump opposes the level of new funds for Puerto Rico supported by Democrats and in the tweets Monday, he blamed local politicians and a lack of appreciation for billions already sent.
Lawmakers seem likely to compromise, but the question is whether Trump will ultimately sign what they agree on. His frustration with Puerto Rico's governor and other leaders continues to fester and their criticism of him has not slacked. To the extent that his opposition to Puerto Rico money is behind any of the Republican opposition on Capitol Hill, it's arguably holding up aid for farmers too.
Trump is not now nor has he ever been a nuanced policymaker. He likes bold pronouncements and promises that feature multiple exclamation marks and simple Twitter-friendly phrases that American voters can easily understand and digest.
But government has a different role: to actually make people's lives better.
Washington  (CNN) - President Donald Trump on Tuesday called on Congress to take action on immigration, placing the onus on Democrats to come to the table after he'd threatened to close the southern border over the increasing number of asylum seekers crossing into the US. 
"Congress has to meet quickly and make a deal. I could do it in 45 minutes. We need to get rid of chain migration,"  Trump said during an Oval Office press availability with Jens Stoltenberg, the Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  
"We need to get rid of catch and release and visa lottery. And we have to do something about asylum. And to be honest with you, we have to get rid of judges," the President continued, later explaining that he no longer wants to catch people trying to illegally cross the Southern border and "bring them to a court." 
The list of topics Trump claimed could be addressed in 45 minutes has long vexed Congress, and almost certainly run afoul of the priorities of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, whose Democratic votes Trump would need to pass any immigration legislation.
"It is the worst, dumbest immigration system in the world," Trump said of the US immigration system. "The Democrats can change it in one meeting. Everyone would agree. But they don't want to change it because they don't want to give Republicans a victory. "
The President said he'd spoken to Democrats about a potential immigration deal, and "all the sudden they're changing" their minds. 
Last week, the President threatened to close the southern border if Mexico did not begin apprehending more migrants attempting to come to the US. Trump acknowledged that Mexico had increased its apprehensions on Tuesday. 
"They've made a big step over the last two days. They are apprehending people," Trump said. "The fact that they're doing that means fewer people are going to come." 
He also said he has "made (the) intention known" that if Mexico does not continue to apprehend more migrants attempting to cross into the US and if Congress does not reach a consensus on immigration, he's "ready to close" the southern border of the US. 
The President added that he's "totally prepared" to close the southern border, "or we're going to close large sections of it" despite economic consequences.
White House officials, meanwhile, are beginning to signal that Mexico is already doing more to stop border crossings -- a development that could give the President a way to save face on the border closing threat without appearing to back down. 
Trump also alluded to this in a tweet Tuesday morning, saying: "Mexico is apprehending large numbers of people at their Southern Border."
In his tweets last week, Trump said: "Mexico must use its very strong immigration laws to stop the many thousands of people trying to get into the USA," or else the "next step is to close the border!"
Now, a senior White House official said this morning that there is evidence that Mexico is stepping up to increase apprehensions and deal with the flow of asylum seekers attempting to get to the US-Mexico border. But the White House is seeking a more long-term commitment from the Mexican government before determining if those efforts are enough. They are seeking private commitments as well as evidence that Mexico's efforts on the ground are sustained for more than a day or two. 
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders also told reporters this morning that the administration has seen Mexico do more on the border.
"They have started to do a significant amount more," Sanders said. "We've seen them take a larger number of individuals in hold in Mexico that have asylum claims while they wait to be processed in the United States." 
"We've also seen them stop more people from coming across the border so that they aren't even entering into the United States. So those two things are certainly helpful and we'd like them to continue to up those efforts," she added.
Because of this wait-and-see posture, the White House does not expect the President to make a final decision on closing the border with Mexico before he travels to the border region on Friday. But this official also cautions that the President could change his mind.
Editor's Note: Frida Ghitis, a former CNN producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist. She is a frequent opinion contributor to CNN and The Washington Post and a columnist for World Politics Review. The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of the author; view more opinion articles on CNN.
(CNN) - President Donald Trump rose to power propelled in part by his rhetoric about invaders from the south swarming the border, and his claim that Mexico was "sending" rapists and killers, but the facts proved quite the opposite. The government's own figures showed the number of people crossing the border had been declining steadily. And in 2015, when Trump launched his campaign, a Pew Research Center analysis found that among one group of migrants, Mexicans, more people were leaving the United States for Mexico than coming across. 
After two years in office, Trump's bravado-driven policies have contributed to reversing what was a positive trend. How else to explain the sharp reversal in what looked like hard-won gains in a complicated, morally-wrenching problem, starting just after Trump took office?
Years after claiming there was one, Trump now has a real crisis.
The number of border apprehensions is at the highest level in more than a decade, according to US Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen says "the system is in freefall." Trump has finally helped create the crisis he pretended existed before. 
What's Trump's solution? Every possible idea to make the problem worse. Everything he proposes, from cutting aid to Central American countries -- some $700 million in a variety of programs -- to closing the border, will exacerbate the problem.
That is, of course, if you think the challenge is how to solve a humanitarian crisis: how to humanely manage and perhaps reduce the flow of families and individuals into the United States. 
If you think the problem is how to stoke the passions of Americans in order to win more votes, then the question looks different. Nationalist leaders have a thing for migrant and refugee crises. Hardly any issue is more beneficial to their hold on power. Whether real or imagined, the specter of outsiders "invading" the country contains the perfect elements of us-versus-them passion and fear-inducing uncertainty to rally voters around a flag-hugging strongman.
If Trump were looking for something more than political fuel to ignite hotter fires among his staunchest supporters, he would offer a thoughtful, muscular policy, one that would invigorate Washington's efforts to improve conditions in Central America, an effort that serves US security and economic interests as much as it does that of its neighbors.
The United States should expand, not suspend, programs aiming to attack the unlivable conditions in Central American countries with some of the world's highest murder rates. For many, life is so dangerous and the prospects are so dim, that they would rather risk the perilous trek and endure the cruelty they encounter in the United States than risk staying.  Some programs in police training, rule of law, human rights standards and economic development are too new to show results, but others are already proving effective.
Trump's chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, instead disingenuously tells an interviewer "we told you so," claiming that the lack of a giant border wall is the reason why so many people, mostly from the so-called Northern Triangle -- El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala -- are suddenly at the border.
That's Trumpian hogwash. Don't believe it.
Trump's own policies have helped bring us to this moment. Consider the numbers.
Apprehensions at the border peaked at 1.6 million people in 2000, according to CBP data (slightly higher than in 1986). The number dropped most years after that. By fiscal year 2017, it had plummeted by an amazing 82%, to 303,000. 
At the same time, migration from Mexico had reversed, with research and data from the US and Mexican governments showing a million Mexicans voluntarily returning to their country between 2009 and 2014. 
The trend reversed again just after Trump took office. Within three months of Trump's inauguration, the numbers started to climb.
Trump's threats to crack down on immigration, his high-profile cruelty against asylum seekers, did little if anything to deter people from seeking shelter in the United States. If anything, in my estimation, they may have sent a message that it was better to make the move now than wait until an even harsher crackdown.
In the process, Trump's rhetoric and his administration's policies put a stain on America that may take generations to erase. The world has now seen US agents removing children from their parents, and then losing track of them; it has seen children in cages, border agents dumping life-saving water left in  the desert by volunteers trying to help, and it has heard about the President saying he wished Scandinavians would come to America, instead of people from "shithole" countries. Talk about rebranding! You couldn't get much further from America's Statue of Liberty, welcoming the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free." Those yearning for America could wind up in cages at the border.
The recent surge, experts tell us, was predictable. Those planning to leave typically try to make the journey before the brutal summer heat bakes the roads and the desert. But the United States was still somehow unprepared.
Now immigration authorities are struggling with the biggest number of apprehensions in years. A temporary enclosure under a bridge in El Paso was compared by a disabled veteran  quoted in the New York Times to a "concentration camp," with families, mothers and children pressed against metal barriers behind razor wire. He had come to donate baby food and was turned away by border patrol officials.
I won't accuse Trump of deliberately trying to make the crisis worse, even if it benefits him. He will surely enjoy watching Democrats try to offer solutions that will alienate part of the population.
But the President's ideas are counterproductive.
His plan to cut funding to Northern Triangle countries -- put forward less than 24 hours after Sec. Nielsen announced a plan to work together with them to tackle the crisis -- will backfire.
US economic assistance to El Salvador has already helped cut the number of people leaving that country from 72,000 in 2016 to less than 32,000 in 2018.
Trump's threat to shut down the border would punish Americans and do little to stop Central Americans. Car manufacturing in the United States could grind to a halt within days. Fruits and vegetables would disappear from shelves. Inflation would spike in the United States.
Instead, the United States should launch a two-pronged strategy. One to tackle the immediate crisis, another to stabilize Northern Triangle countries.
Boost the number of immigration judges and staff handling the influx and asylum claims, build decent temporary facilities and adopt processing systems known to work. Perhaps counterintuitively, cruelty does not deter migration. Trump's policies have proven that.
At the same time, the United States should tackle the crisis of corruption and impunity in Central America. Don't give money to corrupt governments, but provide incentives for progress while funding well-vetted nongovernmental organizations that improve governance, rule of law, and economic development.
Instead of cozying up to governments because they hail from the right, demand that they commit to continuing international partnerships to rebuild their judiciary systems. Weak rule of law allows criminality, corruption, and bribe-taking at every level to continue, along with crippling murder rates, making normal life impossible and preventing investment and economic development.
Sure, improve fences, install electronic surveillance equipment along the border to stop drug traffickers. But the border problem will not ease until Central America stabilizes, until violence and corruption subside. 
A large-scale effort to achieve that would cost much less than a border and would actually get at root issues.  If Trump really wants to solve the problem, not just emit dog whistles and inflame passions, that's what he would do.  
(CNN) - Warning this article contains spoilers about the Season 3 finale of "This Is Us"
It's the moment "This Is Us" fans have been waiting for since the ending of Season 2: Who is 'her'?
The identity of this woman was finally revealed in the final seconds of the Season 3 finale on Tuesday night.
It's Rebecca Pearson, (Mandy Moore), but many years into the future and she appears to be on her deathbed.
Her children and their families appear to be gathering to say their goodbyes. 
Noticeably absent is her husband, Miguel Rivas (Jon Huertas), whom she married after her late husband, Jack Pearson (Milo Ventimiglia), died. Instead, sitting beside her hospital bed is Nicholas "Nicky" Pearson (Michael Angarano), Jack's estranged baby brother.  
What we also learn is that Rebecca is not in the hospital, she is at her son, Kevin Pearson's (Justin Hartley) home. We also discover that Kevin has a son of his own but we don't know with who. Could it be that he and his longtime girlfriend, Sophie (Alexandra Breckenridge), got back together? 
Earlier in the episode we find out that Kevin and Zoe Baker (Melanie Liburd) split because she is adamant about not wanting children. 
A popular fan theory was that "her" was possibly Beth Pearson (Susan Kelechi Watson), since much of season three focused on her marital problems with her husband, Randall Pearson (Sterling K. Brown). But with a quick peck on the lips and a flash of her wedding ring during the flash forward, viewers' fears were quickly erased. 
One unsettling moment came when Toby Damon (Chris Sullivan) arrived to Kevin's home alone, leaving some viewers wondering if he and his wife, Kate Pearson (Chrissy Metz), had possibly split. Earlier in the episode, they left the NICU with their newborn son Jack, who had been born 12 weeks early. During the flash forward we learn that Kate is on her way over with Jack -- so at least we know that despite his health problems from being born so premature he makes it past those touch and go moments.  
But despite some resolve, there are still several unanswered questions: Where is Deja (Lyric Ross), Beth and Randall's foster child? What happened to Miguel? Who did Kevin have a child with? And what is going on with Kate and Toby?
A season four premiere date has not been announced.  
Washington  (CNN) - Former Fox News contributor Morgan Ortagus, the expected pick to become the next State Department spokesperson, repeatedly criticized President Donald Trump during the 2016 Republican presidential primary, a CNN review found.
Ortagus publicly lambasted then-candidate Trump over what she called his "isolationist foreign policy approach," and blasted behavior she qualified as "disgusting" and "not serious." 
However, she quickly reinvented herself as a vocal Trump supporter after he secured the party's nomination and has remained a key TV surrogate for the administration over the last two years. 
Ortagus would bring deep foreign policy experience to the job. 
While she is perhaps best known for her appearances on Fox News, the active Navy Reserve officer previously served as a Treasury Department intelligence analyst during the Obama administration and a spokesperson with the US Agency for International Development under President George W. Bush.
That experience sets her apart from former spokesperson Heather Nauert in the high-profile State Department position, allies say.
Officials have been preparing paperwork and examining Ortagus' background for weeks and sources close to her say she is in good standing with the President, but there is lingering uncertainty around whether Trump is fully aware of the blistering attacks Ortagus levied against him during the campaign, several sources told CNN. 
In an April 2016 appearance on Fox News, Ortagus, who was working for a super PAC associated with Trump's primary opponent former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, said she had deep-seated problems with Trump's foreign policy approach despite agreeing with him on certain issues like Iran.
"In his gut, he does not think that Americans should be, quote unquote, the policemen of the world," she said during a panel discussion dissecting Trump's foreign policy speech.
"I don't see it that way. I think that America is the glue that holds the world together. ... So there were points that I agreed with him today, but overall, I fundamentally disagree with his isolationist approach to foreign policy," she added. 
Earlier that year, Ortagus had slammed Trump for mocking people with physical and mental disabilities and described his temperament as unsuitable for the Oval Office.
"You have somebody who makes fun of people with mental and physical disabilities. That's disgusting; there's no other way around it," she said in January 2016. 
"Quite frankly, I don't want someone with the temperament of a middle school pubescent boy in the president's office," Ortagus added in the same radio interview.
In a March 2016 op-ed, Ortagus wrote that "people know Trump isn't serious," but acknowledged that he had tapped into a feeling within the Republican voter base that other candidates had not.
She did not respond to CNN's request for comment.
A White House official told CNN that they could not speak to the comments Ortagus made in 2016 but noted that she has cultivated strong relationships within the West Wing and built a reputation as a trusted national security voice. 
Ortagus underwent a dramatic transformation after Trump won the Republican primary, serving as a surrogate until as recently as last Thursday.
"The primaries get heated," a GOP source close to Ortagus said. "After the President secured the nomination, she was a TV surrogate for Trump and supported his candidacy in the general election. She has been supportive of the President ever since."  
A senior administration official cautioned last week that Ortagus has not officially been named. But there are signs that a formal announcement could be coming soon.
After CNN and other outlets reported last week that Ortagus was expected to be named to the position, a Fox News spokesperson said Thursday that she was no longer being paid by the network.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has been advocating on her behalf, according to sources familiar with the situation.
For her part, Ortagus is prepared to address her earlier comments with the President if they come up, and will likely frame that criticism as typical of a heated primary race, two sources familiar with her thinking said.
"Her comments calling Trump 'disgusting' are something she will have to discuss with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and with the President. I think reviewing her past comments are probably part of the vetting process," according to Samantha Vinograd, a CNN national security analyst, who is a close friend and business partner of Ortagus.
"I think the President would be hard-pressed to find someone who is qualified, can pass vetting and who hasn't criticized him while he tries to fill senior roles," Vinograd said.
CORRECTION: This story has been updated to correct the name of the Navy Reserve.
(CNN) - Federal prosecutors filed charges Monday against a woman carrying Chinese passports whom they allege illegally entered President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago club in Florida in late March. 
The woman, Yujing Zhang, initially gained access to the property on March 30 through a miscommunication with members of Mar-a-Lago security, according to the complaint. Trump was staying at Mar-a-Lago on that date, though he was not on the property at the time Zhang's alleged visit occurred. 
After she was detained, US Secret Service agents searched multiple electronic devices she was carrying, including four cell phones, a laptop computer, an external "hard drive type" device and a thumb drive, and found that the thumb drive contained malicious malware, prosecutors say.
Once on the property, Zhang told a receptionist she was at the club to attend a United Nations Chinese American Association event, which the receptionist knew didn't exist.
After agents were alerted to Zhang's presence, she told one agent that she was there to attend a United Nations Friendship Event between the United States and China, and produced what she claimed was an invitation to the event, the complaint says. But "agents were unable to read it as it was in Chinese," according to the complaint, which also says agents knew such an event wasn't scheduled to take place.
Late Tuesday, US Attorney's office spokeswoman Sarah Schall said that the two passports Zhang was carrying were from the People's Republic of China. The complaint had indicated the passports were from the Republic of China, commonly known as Taiwan.
"Information presented to the court indicates that the defendant is from the People's Republic of China, not Republic of China (Taiwan), and they were PRC passports," Schall said in an email.
Agents removed Zhang from the Mar-a-Lago property and interviewed her. According to prosecutors, Zhang "claimed her Chinese friend 'Charles' told her to travel from Shanghai, China, to Palm Beach, Florida, to attend this event and attempt to speak with a member of the President's family about Chinese and American foreign economic relations."
Though agents attempted to elicit more information about "Charles," Zhang claimed she had spoken to him only through WeChat, a messaging service that is popular in China. And while Zhang behaved as though she didn't understand much English when she first entered the Mar-a-Lago grounds, the complaint says, during the interviews with agents she "exhibited a detailed knowledge of, and ability to converse in and understand even subtle nuances of, the English language."
Prosecutors in the Southern District of Florida charged her with one count of having made a false statement to a federal officer and one count of having entered restricted property.
Zhang made a brief initial appearance in Florida federal court Monday where she was advised of the charges against her and the possible penalties she faced, according to a court filing. She is due in court for a detention hearing on April 8.
In a statement late Tuesday, the US Secret Service said in a statement that Mar-a-Lago club management is responsible for deciding who is permitted access to the property, noting that "this access does not afford an individual proximity to the President or other Secret Service protectees."
"While the Secret Service does not determine who is permitted to enter the club, our agents and officers conduct physical screenings to ensure no prohibited items are allowed onto the property," the statement said.
It added that "with the exception of certain permanently protected facilities, such as the White House, the practice used at Mar-a-Lago is no different than that long-used at any other site temporarily visited by the President or other Secret Service protectees."
This story has been updated with a statement from the US Attorney's office and the US Secret Service. 
Palm Beach, Florida  (CNN) - President Donald Trump might use his Mar-a-Lago visits to golf, entertain dignitaries and schmooze with his powerful friends, but for his wife, Melania Trump, the idea is to be invisible. The private quarters are just that -- private -- and reserved for just her, her husband and their son.
Mar-a-Lago is her respite.
The family compound of the Trump orbit at the approximately 20-acre estate-turned-private club nestled on the shores of the Atlantic Ocean in Palm Beach, Florida, are relatively modest, as far as their homes go, according to a member familiar with the layout.
The suites of rooms aren't vastly expansive in terms of square-footage -- tiny compared to the three floors of the Trump Tower family penthouse in Manhattan and a fraction of the four floors of the Executive Residence of the White House. There is a coziness to the place, even if it is one of the largest estates in Florida.
There is no private pool for the family, no private spa, no separate driveway. In fact, the proximity to the rest of the guests, many of whom have known one another socially for a period of time, breeding the club-like atmosphere, is both surprising and familial.
The heavily secured area, like most of the property, is essentially attached to the rest of the club's facilities, where members and member-guests can stroll about, dine, socialize, frequent the vast outdoor facilities, the tennis courts, the croquet courts or the Beach Club. 
 
President Trump's Mar-a-Lago is the shiny penny of his wealth, a sprawling example of what he has acquired, the literal interpretation of showing off. He rarely leaves its confines, with the exception of golfing at his club. Melania Trump is loathe to leave the grounds, too, it turns out, and spends most of her vacation days on property, secluded from the hoi polloi members, mostly having quality time with her son and her parents, Viktor and Amalija Knavs, who also spend a decent portion of the year at Mar-a-Lago.
Over the Christmas holiday, the first lady spent three weeks out of the public eye at Mar-a-Lago, save for the approximately four days she was in Washington and on a surprise visit to troops in Iraq. This month, for spring break, she has been away from Washington at Mar-a-Lago since March 19, and is scheduled to return Sunday evening. Her year is peppered with mini-breaks there, too -- the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday weekend, Easter, Thanksgiving. 
Yet, like many things with Trump, there remains a screen of privacy around her visits down here, an oblique notion that she is off somewhere, for large chunks of time away from the White House, doing whatever she sees fit to do, at her own pace, on her own schedule, unrelated to that of her husband, or his priorities or habits -- an independent way of life that has become the calling card of this administration's first lady.
"She has a long history with Palm Beach, yes, but she stays to herself for most part," said Laurence Leamer, part-time Palm Beach resident and author of "Mar-a-Lago: Inside the Gates of Power at Donald Trump's Presidential Palace." 
Leamer has long been a chronicler of Trump and his Palm Beach habits, even pre-presidential, and, as such, those of Trump's third wife. 
"All these ladies in Palm Beach," said Leamer, speaking generally of the overtly monied set of denizens in one of the country's wealthiest towns, "they go to Worth Avenue to shop, they dress up and they pay these exorbitant prices for clothes and things, and that's part of the scene. That's what they do here, that's the life. But not Melania Trump."
The visits
When Trump departed Washington for Mar-a-Lago earlier this month, her spokeswoman, Stephanie Grisham, told CNN spring break at the property was "an annual tradition" for the family. 
There are few who would argue against Trump's fierce commitment to her 13-year-old son to provide as "normal" a life as she possibly can for him. As such, Trump hasn't diverted from the occasions and events that have brought her down here since he was born. 
Grisham, during the 2018 Christmas holidays, which coincided with the longest government shutdown in history, said something similar when pressed by CNN about the first lady's use of government funds to fly to and from Palm Beach and Washington (Air Force planes are required for the first lady of the United States, per security guidelines.) 
"It has long been the family's tradition to spend their Christmas holiday at Mar-a-Lago. Her plans to travel with her son to their Florida home for his winter break have not changed this year," said Grisham at the time. 
For many of the rich folk who "winter" in Palm Beach, away from chilly East Coast temperatures and snow, Palm Beach means parties and social clubs and nights on the town. But for Melania Trump, Palm Beach is hearth-centric, it's where she makes sure things are consistent, where she can care take annual traditions and where she can hunker down, away from the headlines and chaos.
Since becoming first lady, Trump's Mar-a-Lago days include other additions to her usual calendar of vacation and self-care. She now travels there with at least one staff member, typically Grisham, whose full title is deputy chief of staff for communications. 
Trump and Grisham meet regularly while in Palm Beach, Grisham told CNN, to discuss events and off-site visits (this week Trump hosted Fabiana Rosales, the wife of Juan Guaido, the president of the country's National Assembly, who the Trump administration recognizes as Venezuela's acting president. She also dropped in on a local elementary school to talk about bullying with the students).
They also plan upcoming White House obligations (such as the Easter Egg Roll) and future travel. Trump is, Grisham said, in "constant communication" with her and the rest of her small East Wing team back in Washington.
Yet there is another component of her Mar-a-Lago life that is more personal than professional; it is where Trump has lengthy one-on-one time with her husband, the President.
'They dine for hours'
 
Dinner guests at Mar-a-Lago are used to seeing them by now. The couple huddled on the candle-lit patio during dinnertime, talking, sometimes for two, three hours. Only interrupted by friends who come over to shake his hand or wish him a pleasant evening, Donald and Melania Trump are mealtime fixtures at the club's formal outdoor restaurant, often eating dinner together both Friday and Saturday nights on weekends when Trump is in town, says a White House official.
"What married couple spends three hours together alone at dinner?" Leamer, who has observed the Trumps on several occasions rhetorically asked. "They're there so long, other people are leaving and they're just ... there. They dine for hours. He likes a small table, a four-person table, so people can come over to say 'hello' but there's not enough room to invite people to join." 
The cozy dinners at Mar-a-Lago might fly in the face of the oft-thought common perception the first couple are irretrievably detached.  
"It's extraordinary for what a public personality Trump is that part of him is very private, and so is she. I am talking in the sense he and she don't necessarily like interlopers," said Leamer. "Trump has always got to be the center of attention, so if you go to someone else's party, he's not always going to be that."
When Trump does have dinner guests, instances of which there have been publicly circulated photographs, there is typically no more than two or three other couples, oftentimes old friends from New York, or members of his inner political circle. A creature of habit when he's not eating alone with Melania Trump, the President isn't looking to make new friends. Nor is he looking to widen his culinary inclinations. 
Leamer writes in his book how particular Trump is about his vacation menu -- and how many Mar-a-Lago chefs have rotated in and out through the years. As such, Melania Trump doesn't challenge the kitchen either. Though she may not eat Trump's favored blackened steaks and burgers or meatloaf, she keeps her tastes simple and healthy. 
Melania Trump does, however, oversee menus for bigger family events, including Thanksgiving, Easter and Christmas. But for dinners à deux, the focus is on the conversation, not the cuisine. 
"Those two will go and sit at dinner, and they are in the most in-depth conversations, and will talk and sit there for hours, literally," a White House official told CNN, confirming Leamer's account of the first couple's habits. 
A long history
Mar-a-Lago was one of the first places Trump took his new girlfriend, then-Melania Knauss, when they first started dating in late 1998, early 1999, and it quickly became one of her favorite getaways, and remains so now, two decade later.
"Melania Trump is following a long tradition of first ladies seeking to escape the claustrophobic White House," says Kate Andersen Brower, CNN contributor and author of "First Women: the Grace and Power of America's Modern First Ladies." "I think she's been more successful than most because there is so much going on in her husband's West Wing that she can fly under the radar more than Michelle Obama or Laura Bush ever could."
Bush had the family ranch in Crawford, Texas, Obama had Christmases in Hawaii and summers on Martha's Vineyard, but when those first ladies vacationed, it felt planned and regimented. 
"The Reagans had Rancho del Cielo or 'Ranch in the Sky,' " said Brower. "But they were so attached at the hip they often went there together." 
Rarely did they spend as much time apart as do the Trumps.
Trump has Mar-a-Lago, and in the summer, when south Florida becomes sticky with heat and humidity, she can also escape to New Jersey, where she and her family have more private quarters within a private club, the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster. Trump's options are more vast, her movements more mysterious and her activities, when she's not working with her team, more cloaked in privacy.
Trump's desire to be away is perhaps more akin in terms of predecessors to Jacqueline Kennedy, who would spend long weekends away from the White House at Glen Ora, the 400-acre estate in Virginia horse country that the Kennedys rented.
Brower writes in her book, "First Women," "according to Jackie's Secret Service agent, Clint Hill, between the summer of 1961 and the summer of 1962, the first lady spent nearly four months away from Washington. She often left on Thursday afternoon or Friday morning and would not return until Monday afternoon or even Tuesday morning."
Summers for Kennedy were spent in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, where the fabled Kennedy compound was located. But Jackie Kennedy, like Trump, also spent time in Palm Beach for Christmas and Easter, and she had a fondness for escaping to her family's estate in Newport, Rhode Island, where she and John Kennedy were married.
Mar-a-Lago contains marital memories for Trump, as well. While the ceremony was held at nearby Episcopal church Bethesda-by-the-Sea, the Trumps' lavish wedding reception in 2005 was held in the club's gilded ballroom, which had recently completed a $42 million renovation. 
Trump's six-figure couture gown helped land her the cover of Vogue magazine, and at the reception dinner guests were served gold-flecked hors d'oeuvres, steak and lobster, and they swilled expensive Champagne. As the party spilled out into the pool area after dinner, Trump changed into a white Vera Wang slip dress, better for dancing, which the newlyweds did until the wee hours. 
Mar-a-Lago also served as the backdrop for the weddings of Donald Trump, Jr, and Eric Trump -- and more recently, guests opting to hold their wedding at the club are sometimes to treated to a brief audience with the President, if he's in town.
But even when they're with family at Mar-a-Lago, especially Donald Trump's extended clan, those who observe the first lady say she and her parents and her son form their own impenetrable, less approachable entity. 
And when she's there for her husband, "she is on his arm, spectacularly dressed, even if just for the members to see," said Leamer. "Mar-a-Lago is the one place where he feels truly relaxed, he feels comfortable there -- and I think that's true of her as well."
(CNN) - An Ohio teen has been arrested in connection with a series of prank calls to police in upstate New York and across the country, authorities said. 
The 17-year-old, who is accused of making "swatting" calls, was charged with 40 felony and 33 misdemeanor delinquency charges in Mahoning County, Ohio. 
Swatting is the act of making a false police report -- usually of an urgent or violent crime -- to lure law enforcement or SWAT teams to a location.
The boy is accused of calling police on August 11 and saying he had shot his wife, had an AR-15 rifle and was holding his son hostage at a home in Kent, New York, the Putnam County Sheriff's office said.
When law enforcement arrived, they found the home was empty and confirmed there was not an emergency. The homeowner and his family had been out of state, the sheriff's office said. 
Investigators later determined the calls were made from Mahoning County and the phone number had been linked to similar incidents around the country.
Authorities didn't release the teen's name or the number of incidents they are investigating. It's also unclear where and when the incidents took place, and whether anyone was injured. 
Putnam County Sheriff Robert L. Langley Jr. said he hopes the case "will dissuade others from trying this type of activity."
The dangerous prank has found its way into the public eye in recent years because of some high-profile celebrity victims such as Justin Bieber and Kim Kardashian, but also for turning deadly.
Last week, a California man who made a hoax call that led to a fatal police shooting in Kansas was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison after pleading guilty. Authorities said he made 911 calls from Los Angeles by acquiring a Wichita, Kansas, number through a cell phone app.
There aren't any national statistics about how many swatting incidents occur each year, the FBI says, but as of 2013 an FBI special agent guessed there were hundreds.
(CNN) - The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill shocked sports fans Monday with news that the women's basketball coaching staff, including its beloved head coach, were placed on leave pending a review of the program.
But the announcement raised even more questions about the culture of the high-stakes sports program. Here's what we know -- and don't know -- about the situation:
The allegations 
What we know: The school said it initiated the review of the program based on "issues raised by student-athletes and others." 
What we don't know: UNC declined to answer questions about the nature of the complaints that prompted the review, citing student and employee privacy rights. 
It's not clear if the "issues" that were raised include misconduct allegations directly against the staff, or if the staff is accused of letting a toxic environment prevail among the teammates. 
Whatever it was, legal experts said it must have been serious to lead to the suspension of such a revered figure in its sports program. 
Who's affected?
What we know: Four employees, including renowned head coach Sylvia Hatchell, were placed on paid administrative leave.
Hatchell is the fourth winningest coach in NCAA women's college basketball history. She has coached at UNC for 33 seasons. 
She was diagnosed with leukemia in October 2013, shortly after she was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.
She sat out the entire 2013-14 and returned in 2014 after a series of chemotherapy treatments.
Associate Head Coach Andrew Calder is a longtime friend and colleague of Hatchell. He started coaching the Tar Heels in 1986. Calder led the team when Hatchell stepped down because of her leukemia diagnosis.
Assistant coach Sylvia Crawley was a standout center on the 1994 North Carolina NCAA Championship team. She played in the Olympics and the WNBA before returning for her second coaching stint at UNC for the 2018-19 season. 
Assistant Coach and recruiting coordinator Bett Shelby joined the program in 2018. 
CNN reached out to Crawley, Calder and Shelby for comment. In a statement, Hatchell pledged to cooperate with the investigation and said she looked forward to its "prompt conclusion."
"My goal has always been to help them become the very best people they can be, on the basketball court and in life. I love each and every one of the players I've coached and would do anything to encourage and support them. They are like family to me. I love them all."
What we don't know: Who is accused of what, specifically, and why they were singled out for administrative leave.
The investigation
What we know: A private law firm, Parker Poe Adams & Bernstein, will conduct the review to assess the program's "culture" and the "experience" of student-athletes, the school said.
It declined to comment further on the focus of the investigation.
What we don't know: UNC said it does not know the exact timetable for the review's completion, but it promised it will be "thorough and prompt."
The hiring of an outside firm does not necessarily imply a certain kind of investigation, said Susan C. Stone and Kristina Supler, lawyers with Kohrman Jackson & Krantz, who handle cases involving student disciplinary matters and Title IX investigations. 
But they said it was a smart move to guard against concerns of conflicts of interest that could arise from an internal review.
It's also not clear of the allegations were reported to the US Department of Education for possible violations of the federal civil right law known as Title IX, which forbids any kind of discrimination based on gender. 
The department referred CNN to its page for pending cases currently under investigation. 
Different UNC campuses -- including Chapel Hill -- are listed in several open cases involving allegations of sexual discrimination, disability discrimination or racial discrimination. But details of those cases are not publicly available, and it's not clear whether any are linked to the allegations that prompted the independent review of the basketball program.
How the players are responding?
What we know: So far, none have spoken publicly about the review. 
CNN affiliate WRAL reported that three players told the university they intend to transfer.
What we don't know: It's not clear if the decisions are related to the review.
Hamburg, Germany  (CNN) - Perched on a bicycle-like seat, my back's pushed upright and my legs just about fit in the space in front of me. 
I'm testing out the newest version of Italian seat manufacturer Aviointeriors' infamous "standing seats," currently on display at the Aircraft Interiors Expo 2019 (AIX) in Hamburg, Germany.
Last year, at the same conference, Aviointeriors made headlines with its Skyrider 2.0. Now it's back, with version 3.0, ready to rock the world of aviation once again.
Ready for takeoff?
First things first: Gaetano Perugini, engineering adviser at Aviointeriors, is keen to stress that the concept's not about creating "cattle class" and cramming in as many passengers in as possible.
"The message is, we do not want to put thousands of people in the cabin, we want to offer a multi-class configuration, which is nowadays impossible if you want to reach the maximum load of passengers," Perugini tells CNN Travel.
Usually, the only way for an airline to reach maximum capacity is outfitting their aircraft entirely with economy seats. The Skyrider takes up way less space than the average economy seat -- just 23 inches -- so the idea is airlines could cram in their economy seats, and still allow other passengers to book other kinds of tickets on the same flight.
"So that means that in the same cabin, you will have standard economy, premium economy or business class and ultra-basic economy -- which is an innovation for the airline and the passenger," Perugini explains. "This is the true reason for the Skyrider."
Challenging specifications
The design was first proposed back in 2010, but had some structural issues that prevented it from taking off. 
The second version, which premiered in 2018, evolved the design, featuring a pole to keep the seat in place.
This new edition is pole-free; Perugini says 2.0 and 3.0 present two different ways in which the seat could be installed and put into practice.
So what's the likelihood of that actually happening?
Perugini says there's been a lot of interest in the seat, although no one has bit the bullet just yet and ordered them.
There's one final hurdle for the manufacturers to overcome -- other than passengers' reactions, that is.
"If you read the specification of the A380 or the A320 -- or the A321 or the 737, you read that it's not allowed to be installed at a pitch of less than 28 [inches], while the pitch of the Skyrider is 23," explains the engineer
So for now, the Skyrider's tiny size flaunts the aviation rules and regulation. Could this change? 
"When we have behind us a strong customer [...] we can sit around with Airbus or Boeing and explain," says Perugini. 
CNN Travel's verdict
CNN Travel's verdict on the Skyrider sitting experience? Well, it's not as uncomfortable as you might expect -- but as my expectations were low, that's not saying much. 
Sitting on the mock-ups at AIX feels a bit like sitting on a bike saddle: fine for a bit, but I'm only there for a few minutes and I can't imagine much longer. 
Plus, it doesn't seem well suited to every body type -- or really any body type; whether you're tall or short, you're going to ache and be uncomfortable. 
Even Perugini acknowledges it's not necessarily an enjoyable experience, but he reckons for short haul, say a brief hop across Europe, it might work.
"I will be honest, I don't think that somebody is happy to stay eight or ten hours in this configuration," he admits.
"In the short haul, if you want to save money [...] you can hold this -- not fully comfortable position -- for a couple of hours. I think the majority of the people will accept this on a couple of hours flight, a three-hour flight."
I suspect that what you might save on money for your airline ticket you could find yourself coughing up for physio when you land. Plus, it's one thing testing it out on your own, it'd be another being in elbow-jostling distance of a couple of strangers.
Nevertheless Peruguni thinks the seat could take off -- and maybe if it was super-cheap and as comfy as possible, it might be appealing.
"There's an appreciation for this kind of possibility of multi-class arrangement," he says.
"I hope that someone would consider this kind of opportunity -- this is something new. You do not have background for this, you cannot base judgment on previous experiences. We are exploring a new world."
(CNN) - Hong Kong's richest man is opening a multi-million-dollar Buddhist art museum at a monastery in the territory. 
Business tycoon Li Ka-shing has a long history of philanthropy, having contributed millions to universities and hospitals in East Asia and North America. He also pledged support for rescue efforts after the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the Sichuan earthquake of 2008.
Now the 90-year-old, whose wealth Forbes estimates at $33.4bn, has turned his attention to the arts by opening the museum at the Tsz Shan Monastery. 
The museum, which cost around HK$3 billion ($382 million) according to the Li Ka Shing Foundation, sits at the base of an enormous bronze statue of Guanyin, the goddess of mercy, which towers over the monastery, which Li also helped build. 
Among other artifacts, it houses 100 Buddha statues, as detailed in a statement issued by CK Hutchison Holdings Ltd, the company that Li chairs.
The museum, which is free to all visitors, will officially open on May 1, but an inaugural ceremony was held last week. Its permanent collection seeks to "tell the story of Buddhism and how it survives its environment as it moved through the course of history," Li's company said.
The statement adds that the museum aims to enrich those "who seek transcendence and spiritual realizations with an opportunity to explore beyond the symbolism and the art for the essence of the Buddhism."
The museum took three years to build and features relics mostly donated by Li or his foundation, which he established in 1980. 
Addressing more than 2000 guests at the ceremony, Hong Kong chief executive Carrie Lam said:  "Nestled in the grand opus of nature, where tree-lined hills look onto calming seas, the tranquil atmosphere of Tsz Shan Monastery offers the busy world a blissful retreat to put the buzzing world behind and relax its mind. 
 
"The invaluable collection of Buddhist statues, paintings, carvings and sutras housed in the Tsz Shan Monastery Buddhist Art Museum represent not only the enlightened ideals and cultural sphere of Zen Buddhism but will also provide a base for cultural programs and activities," the politician added. 
"The visual and literary culture of the Monastery and its museum will no doubt serve as a quiet space for reflection and the appreciation of Buddhist art for our citizens and visitors."
(CNN) - The children of Jamal Khashoggi have received millions of dollars' worth of property, one-off payments and large monthly allowances as compensation for the killing of the Saudi journalist, a source familiar with the matter told CNN on Tuesday. 
The family could also receive tens of millions of dollars in "blood money" payments following the trial of Khashoggi's alleged killers in Riyadh. All told, the family could stand to collect more than $70 million in cash and assets, the source estimated.  
The Saudi government would contend that these payments are intended to make amends, but the expectation is that in exchange for the money, they won't publicly criticize the royal family over Khashoggi's death, the source said. 
Khashoggi's four children have each been gifted homes worth as much as 15 million Saudi riyals (around $4 million), the source said. Salah, who as the eldest son handles the family's relations with the government, has been given a large home in Jeddah, where he works as a banker. His brother, Abdullah, and two sisters have been given houses together in a different compound. 
In addition to the property, Khashoggi's four children each received a one-time payment of 1 million riyals ($267,000) and will each receive a monthly stipend of $10,000 to $15,000, which could continue indefinitely, according to the source.  
The houses, one-off payments and monthly allowances were approved by Saudi King Salman, the source said.    
The Washington Post, where Khashoggi worked as a columnist before he was killed, first reported the payments to his children.
Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for five of the 11 operatives they say were involved in Khashoggi's killing at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on October 2.  
If the men are convicted and sentenced to death, the Saudi justice system would allow Khashoggi's family to grant their father's killers clemency through the so-called "blood money" arrangement. 
Blood money is a legal mechanism under Sharia law, through which the accused pays a sum to the relatives of the victim to avoid the death penalty. If, as expected, the men are unable pay the amount demanded by the family, the government could step in to foot the bill. 
The family could receive further payments of as much as 100 to 200 million riyals ($26.7- $53.3 million) as part of blood money negotiations that might be expected when the trial concludes, CNN's source said. That estimate is based on similar deals made in the past which involved payments by the Saudi government, according to the source. 
The Saudi government didn't respond to multiple requests for comment Tuesday. 
So far, Khashoggi's children have not openly criticized the kingdom, despite the CIA's conclusion that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ordered their father's killing. 
Photos released by the Saudi government in October showed a stone-faced Salah Khashoggi shaking hands with bin Salman, in what was widely perceived as an orchestrated opportunity for Khashoggi's eldest son to show deference to the Saudi royal family. 
Salah, a dual US-Saudi citizen, is the only Khashoggi sibling who plans to stay in the kingdom, according to CNN's source. Abdullah and his two sisters are still in the United States and have no intention of returning to live in the homes given to them in Saudi. CNN's source said they are not able to sell the homes and pocket the money either. 
CNN reached out to Salah and Abdullah Khashoggi for comment, but neither has responded.
In an exclusive interview with CNN in November, the two brothers described their father as "courageous, generous and very brave," and issued an emotional appeal for the return of their father's body, which was never found. 
"I really hope that whatever happened wasn't painful for him, or it was quick. Or he had a peaceful death," Abdullah told CNN during a sit-down interview in Washington with Salah. 
Asked how Khashoggi should be remembered, Salah replied, "as a moderate man who has common values with everyone... a man who loved his country, who believed so much in it and its potential."
Riyadh has maintained that neither bin Salman nor King Salman knew of the operation to target Khashoggi last October. US officials, however, have said such a mission -- including 15 men sent from Riyadh -- could not have been carried out without the authorization of bin Salman. 
US President Donald Trump has come under pressure from Congress and others to hold Saudi Arabia accountable over the Khashoggi case. But Trump, an ally of the 33-year-old heir, has so far shown no interest in investigating allegations of bin Salman's involvement, saying: "Maybe he did, maybe he didn't." 
US sanctions have been imposed on 17 Saudi individuals, but not bin Salman.
(CNN) - Joe Biden and his team are making it clear to supporters and donors that they are moving forward with plans for a possible 2020 presidential run, insisting the former vice president is undeterred by allegations that he made some women feel uncomfortable in his interactions with them.
People close to Biden say he and his team are taking seriously the experiences the women are sharing, and his aides are cognizant that the way Biden interacts with voters on the campaign trail will continue to be examined if he runs for president. And his advisers are also aware that his rivals -- both Democratic candidates and President Donald Trump -- could also fan the flames surrounding the allegations.
One source in Biden's orbit says the current debate unfolding about Biden's conduct has heightened his awareness of the criticism he may face on a number of issues -- including his handling of Anita Hill's 1991 testimony -- if he enters the presidential race and that he is prepared for what's ahead. An announcement of his plans is expected to come as soon as this month, potentially after the Easter holiday, sources familiar with the discussions said. A source close to Biden said the former vice president hasn't made a final decision on his plans. 
Biden's camp dove into damage control mode Friday after Lucy Flores, a former Nevada assemblywoman, penned an essay detailing a 2014 encounter where the former vice president made her feel "uneasy, gross and confused" when he came up from behind her and kissed the back of her head. After a series of carefully-worded statements attributed to his spokesman, Biden released a statement of his own addressing the allegation on Sunday.
"In my many years on the campaign trail and in public life, I have offered countless handshakes, hugs, expressions of affection, support and comfort," Biden said in a statement that was released shortly before Flores appeared in her first television interview. "And not once - never - did I believe I acted inappropriately. If it is suggested I did so, I will listen respectfully. But it was never my intention."
He added, "I may not recall these moments the same way, and I may be surprised at what I hear. But we have arrived at an important time when women feel they can and should relate their experiences, and men should pay attention. And I will."
For now, Biden, a self-described "tactile politician," has signaled no immediate plans to further address the allegations in any way, such as an interview. Although people close to him say this could always change. When a second woman came forward claiming Biden made her feel uncomfortable at a 2009 Connecticut fundraiser, his team pointed to his response from Sunday.
The next public event currently on Biden's schedule is a panel on the opioid epidemic at the University of Pennsylvania next Thursday.
Some voters, who were attending a forum with several Democratic presidential candidates on Monday told CNN they wanted to hear more from Biden.
"I think it's perfectly OK to have complex feelings towards people like Joe Biden and I continue to have complex feelings," said Kattie Mettle of Maryland, who is passionate about the environment and winning back the White House and is among voters weighing both as they consider new allegations against Biden.
Aside from his initial statement, much of the Biden camp's response to the fallout has fallen to female surrogates, including former staffers in his Senate and White House offices, former administration officials and friends.
"I saw him at his best and his worst, in quiet moments and on the world's largest stages. Through it all, in big ways and in the small ways that sometimes matter even more, he was, is and always has been a champion for women and equality," Elizabeth Alexander, Biden's former press secretary at the White House, wrote in a USA Today, op-ed.
"Joe Biden is one of the truly decent and compassionate men in all of American politics. He has helped me through my fathers diagnosis, treatment and ultimate passing more than anyone of my fathers friends combined. I wish there was more empathy from our politicians not less," Meghan McCain, a co-host of the View and daughter of the late Sen. John McCain, tweeted.
"I had the honor of working with Joe Biden every single day for eight years. And I have an enormous amount of respect for him," Valerie Jarret, former senior adviser to President Obama, said on NPR's All Things Considered. "But I think he got it right over the weekend when he said it's important that men listen."
Aides to Biden said the former vice president was "heartened" by the former female staffers and friends who have rallied to his side since late Friday, noting that many volunteered to share their personal experiences with Biden.
But some are also encouraging the former vice president to re-examine how he interacts with others. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the highest ranking female politician in the country, said the allegations against Biden aren't "disqualifying" but added the former vice president needs to be more aware of how his actions make others feel.
"He has to understand in the world that we're in now that people's space is important to them and what's important is how they receive it, not necessarily how you intended it," Pelosi said at a Politico event Tuesday, adding that he should join the "straight arm club," suggesting she keeps people at a distance.
Even if this moment of political turbulence passes for Biden, the allegations will almost certainly be litigated again and again during the Democratic primary fight as candidates are asked to respond to questions. How he responds will be central to whether he can fully move beyond the controversy.
While Biden has run for president twice before and served on the Democratic ticket in 2008 and 2012, the 2020 campaign represents a new era in a post Me Too world. Potential rivals have said they believe Flores' story and respect her right to tell it, even while showing an air of exasperation by it all.
"I have been through a lot of this in the last year, questions about other male politicians," Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., told CNN. "If we spend our whole time talking about what men have done or maybe they didn't do or could do, we're never going to talk about what women can do. We have some extraordinary women running for president right now."
Those in Biden's orbit have long been aware his physical interactions with voters, which have played out in the public eye for years, could be the subject of scrutiny. But they chalk up those touchy, sometimes affectionate moments with both men and women to a politician looking to connect with people through gestures of support and comfort.
One such moment of comfort was detailed this week by Stephanie Carter, the wife of former Defense Secretary Ash Carter. She is at the center of viral photo, which shows Biden grasping her shoulders and whispering in her ear, an image Carter says was "misleadingly extracted" from video of the day.
"The Joe Biden in my picture is a close friend helping someone get through a big day, for which I will always be grateful," Carter wrote in a Medium blog post. "As the sole owner of my story, it is high time that I reclaim it — from strangers, Twitter, the pundits and the late-night hosts."
Biden's team has been troubled by "smears and forgeries" that exist on the Internet, including images that are photoshopped to show the former vice president in potentially compromising situations.
Biden's spokesman Bill Russo said Biden has made clear he "believes that women who have experience any such discomfort, regardless of intention, should speak and be heard, and that he will be among those who listen," but added "the important conversation about these issues are not advanced, nor are any criticisms of Vice President Biden validated, by the continued misrepresentation of the Carter and Coons moments, or a failure to be vigilant about a cottage industry of lies."
Editor's Note: Father Edward Beck is a Roman Catholic priest and a religion commentator for CNN. The views expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion on CNN.
(CNN) - Should voters care what political candidates believe theologically or to what faith tradition, if any, they subscribe? I don't. It doesn't matter to me if they find spiritual inspiration in a church, synagogue, mosque, temple, ashram, Yellowstone National Park or their own house. 
But I do believe that political candidates, especially presidential ones, need to have the moral rectitude and ethical backbone to make wise political decisions based on compassion and the common good.   
Many Americans have formed their consciences and instincts toward right behavior as part of the Judeo-Christian tradition based on love of God and neighbor. Religion has provided their moral compass.  
Out on the presidential campaign trail, candidates have been engaging the issue of religious faith head-on. Indeed, at several recent CNN town halls, Democratic presidential candidates, such as Sens. Cory Booker and Elizabeth Warren, have brought up issues of morality and spoken about their faith.  
And at his town hall a few weeks ago, Pete Buttigieg, mayor of South Bend, Indiana, discussed his views, contrasting them with those of Vice President Mike Pence, who was Indiana's governor during part of Buttigieg's tenure in office. 
Buttigieg told the audience that his feeling "is that Scripture is about protecting the stranger, and the prisoner, and the poor person, and that idea of welcome. That's what I get in the Gospel when I'm in church." He said that the vice president's perspective "has a lot more to do with sexuality, and, I don't know, a certain view or rectitude." 
A few weeks before Buttigieg made those comments, I had the opportunity to sit down with him to explore in depth his ideas about faith, religion, God and Scripture. According to a 2016 Pew Research poll, most Americans want a president to have strong religious beliefs. I wanted to know what influence religion has had in the development of this candidate's ethical and moral view of the world. 
Of course, I make no endorsement of any candidate, but I welcomed the chance for the discussion with Buttigieg. Our interview was lengthy and wide-ranging, so it has been condensed and edited for clarity and flow.  
We began by talking about Buttigieg's early experience of religion.
Father Edward Beck: You were baptized Roman Catholic, and your father was a Roman Catholic from Malta? 
Buttigieg: Malta was personally converted by St. Paul, so Catholicism is extremely deep and universal among the Maltese. My father's journey was a little complicated. He became or started to become a Jesuit. And then somewhere on the back end of that he was a leftist intellectual immigrant living in America. His experience of the '60s is a little murky to me. My family in Malta for the most part remains deeply religious. And I was baptized, I think more or less right away, by a theologian of science and religion at Notre Dame. 
Beck: I think you've said that your father did not remain religious because your family didn't go to church much or anything like that. It was just important that you got baptized. 
Buttigieg: Yes, if anything my mother considers herself more religious, although she was not as likely to attend church either. Her mother was Methodist, but Mom identified more with the Anglican faith. She taught at National Cathedral School for a time, around the time my dad was a Jesuit, I think. 
Beck: So, the Jesuits made your father lose religion, huh? (Laughter) 
Buttigieg: A lot of things are blamed on the Jesuits, but I don't want to contribute to that. 
 Beck: Even though you didn't go to church much, you did go to a Catholic high school. 
Buttigieg: For me a lot of it was soaking up a tradition that I hadn't understood very well at first. I felt that many of the social teachings that I was imbibing were either very much consonant with what I believed or led on to what I was coming to believe. The teachings on justice, on what had happened around the world, learning about El Salvador, for example, in a government class, learning about Catholic commitments to human rights was very powerful because it helped me understand why many different people could overlap onto the same intuition about right and wrong. And maybe the most helpful thing of all was the instruction on Scripture. 
A faith evolving in adulthood
Beck: When you were a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, your encounter with religion began to change. 
Buttigieg: By the time I was an adult I didn't view myself as Catholic. When I began to view myself as religious was really something that happened while I was at Oxford. I had been very committed to and am very committed to Enlightenment values but ... finding the humility to realize that there were forms of truth that I was not going to be accessing through reason kind of prompted me to look for more. 
I found myself going to services at Christ Church, which happened to be across from my college, Pembroke, at Oxford and found in that very simple liturgy a way to begin to organize my spirituality. So that by the time I came back to the US I felt like I was more-or-less Anglican.  
When I got back to South Bend and was looking for a church home, I found in (the Episcopal Cathedral of) St. James this faith community that really takes seriously that it's urban, that it's part of a city. And just very quickly felt drawn to that community. And now for about 10 years it's been my faith home. So it was important for me to be married in the church. And when Chasten and I go together I think it brings us closer together.  It was a mix of faith but also of community that really made it the right place to be. And, of course, the fact that we were welcome.  
Beck: You describe your faith as more liturgical than theological. So does that mean that you don't consider yourself having private, individual spirituality or a life of prayer outside of that gathered community? 
Buttigieg: I don't know why I wound up liturgically conservative other than maybe habit, but I do feel that way. If there's going to be music, I want an organ, not a guitar. ... And I've always struggled with prayer as a concept, just because the idea that when you address the Almighty, we do it, grammatically, in the imperative mood. It's an interesting thing. 
Granted, in a literal sense, it's asking for things, but that's problematic, too, as though we encounter God, and he hasn't already figured out what we need. So I guess in that sense I do find that ritual organized prayer makes sense because it is a way to tune my own heart to what is right.  
On the moral weight of military service
Beck: You've served in the military (in 2014 Buttigieg was deployed to Afghanistan for seven months). As a Christian how did you approach military service ethically and morally? 
Buttigieg: What I told myself at the time was that there are cases where violence is necessary in order to prevent greater violence. And I believed in our mission in the sense both that it was protective of my country, and also in the sense that it was a pretty grim thing to see what the Taliban had done and what they would do given the chance. 
To the extent that I experienced any injury as a consequence of having been there, it was not from moments when I was afraid of being killed, as much as it was from moments when I may have participated in killing. Over time I began to realize that was the part I was having the hardest time coming to terms with. 
I understand why it can be necessary, but I don't think we have really, in terms of what we ask of people in the military, I don't think we've really reckoned with the moral weight of what we're asking them to do -- not just in terms of the physical risks they take but the moral harm that we're asking them to go through.  
On navigating the abortion debate
As mayor of South Bend, Buttigieg was embroiled in the abortion debate when he vetoed a rezoning request by an anti-abortion pregnancy counseling center that wanted to establish itself adjacent to an abortion clinic.  
Beck: Tell me a little about that experience and why it was so volatile.  
Buttigieg: I understood from the outset that my responsibilities legally and ethically had to do with zoning, but nobody who was calling my office about this issue was doing it because of their views on zoning. People cared about this issue based on where they came down in the abortion debate.  
The problem for me was not that this organization wanted to open a seventh location in this neighborhood. It was that I was being asked to sign off on changing the zoning law over the objection of the would-be next-door neighbor -- and over the objection of the (Common) Council members for that district -- without seeing a compelling reason about why it absolutely had to be there. And so the council in a narrow and very bitterly divided vote, I think 5-4, voted it through, but I couldn't sign it. I just didn't think it was right.  
People think I did it for political reasons, which is probably the most hurtful because my political judgment told me that the simplest thing to do would be to quietly sign off and the issue would go away.   
Beck: What about late-term abortion? 
Buttigieg: Ironically, an issue like this is mostly for me about freedom from government. It is being aware that there are these incredibly painful, morally complex, but often also medically complex situations. And the question is: How do we make sure, as people navigate this in a really painful human way, that there are as few undue pressures on them as possible? 
At the end of the day these are, as I understand it, measures that are designed to preserve the life and health of the mother, who is only getting to that point, I imagine, for the most part, if she had every intention of carrying a pregnancy to term. And I just don't see how my intervention as a government official, making rules about what she can and can't do, is going to help. 
Beck: But don't we ask government to intervene in other life issues, such as murder? 
Buttigieg: There are consensus issues and there are decisive issues. We demand that government intervene when we can all agree on what's at stake. The problem with this issue is that we can't all agree on what's at stake. There was a Notre Dame law student who said that birth control, abortion and infanticide are all the same thing. To me, I cannot relate to someone who views the world that way, but I get that some people do, and they think the creator of the universe wants them to think that way. 
On love, marriage and being gay
Beck: You came out as gay relatively late (he was in his 30s, and in the middle of a re-election campaign). Talk about that. 
Buttigieg: You could rewind to when I'm 12 or 13 and say it was obvious -- but not to me. I desperately didn't want to be. I would have given anything. Professionally I had gravitated toward two things, political life and military service, both of which, at the time, it seemed to me were completely incompatible with being gay or, at least, with being out. 
Beck: What's your take on why religion finds same-sex marriage so divisive?  
Buttigieg: I saddens me because when I think about the blessings of marriage. First of all, it's one of the most conservative things about my life, very conventional. It is morally one of the best things in my life. Being married to Chasten makes me a better person. I would even say it moves me closer to God.  And so the idea that this of all things is what people are attacking each other over and excluding each other over, when God is love, we are taught. Of all the things to beat people up over on theological grounds, it just seems to me that loving shouldn't be one of them. So it's a painful thing to watch. I mean I get it, but. ... 
If you believe marriage has to do with love, if also, by the way, at the risk of sounding a bit conservative, you believe that sex has to do with love, or ought to, then I think it takes you to a pretty specific place. I've learned that it's an expression of love, at least it can be. And I guess I believe it ought to be. 
On co-opting religion for a political agenda
Beck: Do you see religion being weaponized sometimes as just personal agenda and to make political points?  
Buttigieg: Yes. And some of these things may also be believed in good faith, but I don't think that gives someone a license to harm others. I think that's where we draw the line on any freedom. The same way that we say that the right to swing your fist ends where the other one's nose begins. It is one thing to practice one's faith as one sees fit. It is another to harm somebody else in the name of that faith. 
We discussed Mike Pence, and Indiana's Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which Pence, as governor, signed into law in 2015. It allows Indiana businesses to cite their religious freedom as a legal defense in lawsuits. 
Beck: Talk about that law and your view of freedom of religion -- and freedom from religion.  
Buttigieg: (The Religious Freedom Restoration Act) appeared to me to be a license to harm others in the name of religion. ... It was to me a trashing not just of our sense of freedom and our sense of rights, but also, in some way, a trashing of religion. Like is this really the biggest thing we should be doing to accommodate religion right now: making it easier to harm people in its name?  
Beck: It's been reported that Mike Pence believes that at this moment in history God wants him to be vice president and (Donald) Trump President.  
Buttigieg: The section in my book about Mike Pence begins with that quote from Lincoln where he says, "Both sides in great contests invoke God, think and hope that God's on their side. Both may be, and one must be, wrong." The idea that God wants somebody like Mike Pence to be the cheerleader for a President largely known for his association with hush money to adult film actresses seems to me to give God very little credit.
 
On his father's death
Beck: Tell me about the death of your father and its impact on you. (Buttigieg's father, Joseph, died in January.) 
Buttigieg: (Long pause) Well, it's very recent so I'm still kind of working through that. (Pause.) I don't yet know how religion will help me make sense of my relationship with my father or his death, other than, of course, the fact that it holds out the hope of some form of unity or reunification. 
We never really understand our relationships with the dead any better than we understand our relationships with the living. They're complicated and they're evolving, they're confusing, but they're probably the better part of who we are. 
(CNN) - Rep. Eric Swalwell and political advisers around him have started to tell top Democrats he plans to launch a presidential campaign this month, according to multiple Democrats who have talked to Swalwell and people inside his political operation. 
The California Democrat, a 38-year-old four-term congressman from the Bay Area, has made five trips to Iowa and three trips to New Hampshire since the 2018 midterms. He will return to the Granite State Saturday, according to his congressional campaign. He also will headline an event in his district on April 14, "where he will discuss his vision for the East Bay and America."
The congressman began telling reporters as early as August 2018 that he was considering jumping in to the race. That chatter has increased in recent weeks, with Swalwell telling Iowa Democrats and Democratic donors that he planned to announce a longshot 2020 bid in April, after the first quarter fundraising deadline has passed.
Asked about conversations he has had with Democrats, Swalwell did not deny his plans to announce this month.
"No news from us," he said.
But multiple Democrats tell CNN that Swalwell, and the growing number of aides and advisers around him, have begun informing Democrats in early states that the California congressman will announce a bid this month.
No plans are locked in, these Democrats said, but one told CNN that they were told Swalwell hopes to make the announcement on a late-night talk show.
A spokesman for Swalwell would not confirm those comments but hinted that an announcement could be imminent.
"You will know his decision this month," a Swalwell spokesman said. "You can infer what you will from the fact that he is still traveling in terms of what way he is leaning."
Swalwell's entrance into the race would make him the latest longshot candidate to enter the crowded and growing field vying for the chance to take on President Donald Trump in 2020. Democrats are waiting on former Vice President Joe Biden to decide on a run, along with former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, Sen. Michael Bennet of Colorado, Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana and Rep. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts.
Swalwell has raised his profile in recent years by becoming a stable on cable television, especially to talk about investigations into the Trump administration. But even he admitted in a December interview with CNN that a possible presidential bid against big-name Democrats like Biden and Sen. Bernie Sanders is "daunting."
"I don't want to do it half-assed," he said. "I would want it to be a serious campaign that could be a winning campaign."
Swalwell would enter the race looking up at other Democrats in terms of money and name recognition, but he told CNN earlier this year that one of the biggest hurdles for him getting into the 2020 race is the impact a campaign would have on his two children under 2 years old.
(CNN) - The 2020 Democratic field is rounding the first major marker of viability in the race: Fundraising over the first three months of 2019. And because money is an important indicator of momentum, there's a lot of spin happening right now about the first-quarter numbers.
So what matters and what doesn't?
Presidential fundraising is not simply about who can court more rich people to write them a check. It's also about a candidate being able to convince regular people to part with one of their most precious resources: Money. At this early stage, a candidate who can do that has a pitch that works and a case that persuades people. In the long run, that is the name of the game when it comes to winning the nomination and the White House.
Below, a breakdown of what you should take from the fundraising hauls of the candidates who have released their numbers -- and a few notes on the candidates who haven't. (Note: The candidates are listed alphabetically by last name. Not every candidate has released their totals yet -- when they do, I will add them here.)
Joe Biden
One of the main reasons Biden didn't enter the race in March was that he didn't want his first quarter fundraising totals compared to people like Sens. Kamala Harris and Bernie Sanders, who had been raising money actively for most of the three-month period. There are some concerns that Biden's fundraising apparatus is too old-school -- reliant on major donors and bundlers -- to compete in the new small-dollar online donations world. If he enters the race, he'll have between then and June 30, the end of the second fundraising quarter, to prove those doubters wrong.
Pete Buttigieg
The South Bend mayor reported raising $7 million since establishing an exploratory committee to run for president in late January. That total came from 158,550 donors, with an average contribution of $36.35. Much of the fundraising jostling in a presidential race is about expectations, and at the start of the year, no one expected Buttigieg to come anywhere close to $7 million. No one. 
After all, he was an unknown mayor of a smallish city. (Sorry, Notre Dame fans!) That Buttigieg convinced more than 150,000 people to donate to him in a period of time when he was at 1% (if that) in most polling on the race is remarkable. Buttigieg was the momentum candidate for much of the past month; his fundraising will do nothing to slow that momentum, and might even increase it.
Kamala Harris
Unlike Biden, Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Beto O'Rourke, Harris has never really raised huge sums of money for her campaigns in the past. In her 2016 Senate race, which she won easily, Harris raised just over $15 million. Which is $15 million more than I have ever raised, but is nowhere near the past fundraising totals of Warren ($40+ million raised in 2016) and O'Rourke ($80 million raised in 2018). 
Given that context, Harris' $12 million first quarter is solid, if not spectacular. (She totaled 218,000 contributions during the period, and 98% of her donations were $100 or less.) Harris has a few things going for her that might have suggested her total could have been higher: She's from a donor-rich (and massive) state in California, and from the moment she entered the race, she was -- and is -- regarded as one of its frontrunners. My guess is that Harris now has her fundraising operation fully up and operational, and in the coming months, you will see her fundraising begin to match or even exceed some of the other candidates in the top tier.
Beto O'Rourke
The former Texas congressman is the one major candidate in the frontrunning pack -- Biden, Sanders and Harris are the others -- who has yet to release his numbers for the first quarter. O'Rourke raised a stunning $6.1 million in his first 24 hours as a candidate, but also got a bit later start on the hunt for cash than the other candidates who have already reported their totals. O'Rourke was only a candidate for two-ish weeks, meaning it could be tough for him to rival Sanders' haul. But expectations are still high, given that O'Rourke raised a stunning $79 million for his 2018 challenge to Sen. Ted Cruz (R). 
Bernie Sanders
As expected, Sanders set the early pace in fundraising, with more than $18 million raised from 525,000 individual contributors who gave, on average, $20. Sanders has a massive existing list from his 2016 campaign, and in that race, demonstrated his appeal in the online giving world. (He raised an unbelievable $228 million for his primary against Hillary Clinton, a number that still boggles the mind.) Still, just because Sanders' number isn't surprising, it also shouldn't be taken for granted. Sanders' fundraising ability -- and the fact that he rarely if ever holds fundraisers to collect cash -- is a major advantage for his campaign as we move forward into the rest of this year and into 2020 when voters start voting.
Elizabeth Warren
Like O'Rourke, we've yet to hear how much the Massachusetts senator raised in the first three months of the year. Unlike O'Rourke, the news seems likely to not be good. Warren was the first major candidate into the 2020 race -- she entered the race at the tail end of 2018 -- and is someone who has raised huge sums of money for past races. (She brought in more than $42 million for her 2012 Senate win.) 
But there are signs of trouble in Warren's world. Her campaign was slow to get off the ground as she struggled to put the controversy over her Native American heritage behind her. She raised just around $300,000 in her first 24 hours as a candidate, for example. 
In late February, Warren announced that she would have nothing to do with major donors. Over the weekend, news broke that her campaign's finance director was leaving -- never a good sign. Warren's totals will be boosted somewhat by the $11 million she had sitting in her Senate account that she, presumably, transferred to the presidential over the last three months. Pay close attention to how much new money Warren has raised specially for her 2020 ambitions. That will tell the tale.
CORRECTION: This story has been updated to correct Kamala Harris' number of contributions in the first quarter.
(CNN) - The second debate of the 2020 Democratic presidential primary, hosted by CNN, will take place in Detroit on July 30 and 31, the Democratic National Committee announced Tuesday.
The debate will bring the crowded field of Democratic candidates to the battleground state of Michigan, which President Donald Trump won in 2016.
The debate will feature randomized lineups drawn from a maximum of 20 qualifying candidates. A total of 12 presidential primary debates are planned during the 2020 cycle. The first debate, hosted by NBC News, will be June 26-27 in Miami.
The 2020 Democratic field is already large and diverse, with more than a dozen contenders in the race and other high-profile candidates, including former Vice President Joe Biden and Georgia Democrat Stacey Abrams, still considering a run.
Qualifying for the debates is based on a two-path system, determined by polling and grass-roots fundraising. The selection methodology will use the two measures in combination if more than 20 candidates qualify and the field needs to be narrowed down.
The debate will be over two days because the field is too big to fit on one stage. The Democratic National Committee will pick at random who ends up on each day. Up to 10 candidates will be onstage each night, so if there are more than 20 Democrats running, those who have not reached the threshold for grass-roots fundraising or polling will be excluded from the debate.
According to the debate guidelines, candidates "may qualify for the debate by registering at 1% or more support in three separate polls (either national polls or polls of the electorate in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and/or Nevada) publicly released between January 1, 2019, and 14 days prior to the date of the debate," with "qualifying polls" coming from a DNC-approved list. That list includes polls from the Associated Press, ABC News, CBS News, CNN, Des Moines Register, Fox News, Las Vegas Review-Journal, Monmouth University, NBC News, New York Times, NPR, Quinnipiac University, Reuters, University of New Hampshire, Wall Street Journal, USA Today, Washington Post and Winthrop University.
The three polls used by candidates to qualify for the debate must be from three different organizations, or the same organization but of different geographical areas.
In addition to the polling criteria, candidates may qualify if they have received campaign contributions from at least 65,000 unique donors, and a minimum of 200 unique donors per state in at least 20 US states.
(CNN) - In 2013, Vanessa McGrady learned that her 2-year-old daughter's birth parents were living on the street. So she took an unusual step: She invited them to stay with her.
This unorthodox living arrangement, with its joyful and painful moments, became the basis for McGrady's new book, "Rock Needs River: A Memoir About a Very Open Adoption."
McGrady and her husband, Peter, had met their daughter's biological mother just four days before she gave birth. They bonded with the young, very pregnant woman and her boyfriend in part due to a shared love of music.
After McGrady and her husband took their newborn daughter, Grace, home to their 2-bedroom condo in Glendale, California, they kept in touch with the biological parents via email and Facebook.
Fast forward two-and-a-half years, and almost everything had changed. McGrady was separated from her husband. Her daughter's birth parents were homeless. When McGrady learned of their plight, she made a very unconventional choice.
In the 14 years I've known McGrady she's been unfailingly bold and generous. I spoke with her recently about her story of adoption and adaption. (Her answers have been lightly edited for length and clarity.)
CNN: Tell me about the circumstances Grace's birth parents were in when she was born.
McGrady: So, at that time, Bill and Bridgett were living in a small apartment. It was more like a residential hotel. Bridgett was unable to find work. She had a background in grocery stores. And Bill was assistant managing a Pizza Hut. But they were barely making it. And then a couple of years later, they got evicted. Bill had lost his job and they just couldn't afford to do it anymore...they were out on the sidewalk in Los Angeles. 
And when it became winter, it was really rainy and stormy and cold, and I invited them to stay with us, because, you know, what else would you do? They were living in a tent. And I just feel like that is the thing you do when someone you know becomes homeless. You give them a spot to rest.
CNN: Did you give a lot of thought to doing this or was it more of a quick decision?
McGrady: I didn't give a lot of thought to it, because I don't know you repay an un-repayable debt. Them choosing us to become parents is really something I can never, ever repay and if it means them bunking with us for a little bit, that's okay. There are things that I wish I had done differently, but I don't regret inviting them to stay.
CNN: What was it like living with Bill and Bridgett?
McGrady: It felt like it was in between having friends and family stay. They were very polite and tidy. We tried hard to stay out of each other's way, but I also wanted them to feel comfortable. They were also very sweet with Grace.
CNN: Do you think Grace benefited from having them in the house? 
McGrady: I don't know. It's one of her earliest memories. I think it is important for (most) adopted kids to know at least a little about their birth parents. There was one really sweet night I remember that I was having a hard time brushing her hair and they started brushing each other's to show how nice it felt. It didn't convince her, but it was just such a lovely gesture. There was also another time where Bridgett and I orchestrated this great comeback visit from a lost teddy bear on Christmas Eve -- I'd found a replacement -- and that was fun. Of course, Grace figured out it wasn't the same bear, but I'd say our production was pretty good.
CNN: But there were some difficulties, right? Could you outline what happened?
McGrady: I didn't lay out expectations clearly or boundaries clearly. And they would come in and out. So they stayed with us about a month, a month and a half, over the holiday season. And then every now and then, they would come back. But then it kind of came to a point where Grace was feeling very anxious, and she was crying a lot, she wouldn't go to sleep by herself, and I couldn't really pinpoint anything other than these random comings and goings... and so there was a time where I didn't invite them in. And I think that really hurt the relationship. And they were angry at me for a long time for not doing that because up until then I had let them stay when they showed up. But the one time that I didn't really turned things for us.
CNN: But you recovered from that and you later had their cooperation when you started to write the book, right? 
McGrady: Yeah, we did. We did. They were very enthusiastic about telling their story. I went to Texas and talked to them and I have a lot of hours of recordings and videos and they did ask me to help tell their story. And then that became a book, and so their story is in "Rock Meets River." But there have been times, over the years, where we have been in and out of contact. And currently they are not in contact with us. But I hope if Grace ever needs them, they will be available to her.
CNN: What were their feelings about the adoption process?
McGrady: Well -- unfortunately I didn't realize this until several years after the adoption happened and I went to Texas and talked to them -- but they did not have a good adoption experience. They felt very marginalized by the hospital. The social workers and nurses tried to convince them to not place the baby for adoption. And they were also stuck with a lot of bills which they didn't expect.
CNN: What kind of bills?
McGrady: Hospital bills. Usually that is facilitated by the agency. It also is possible that the agency was available to them and they didn't use that, or they didn't use the resources that they had available to take care of those things. But also, when you're homeless, it's very difficult to do things that require bureaucracy. When you're homeless, you can't be on hold forever if you have a phone with prepaid minutes, for example. Or if you cannot be on a computer for [an] extended period of time. It's difficult to get around, it's difficult to bring all your things with you. So there are a lot of hurdles to getting things done such as paying hospital bills or even getting to medical appointments. 
CNN: Have they been homeless most of the time you've known them, or were they in and out of homelessness?
McGrady: They've been homeless most of the time. They were in a family home in Texas for awhile. They didn't have electricity or running water, but they did have the home.
CNN: And now you're not sure where they are now?
McGrady: I'm not exactly sure.
CNN: Would you say your book is about motherhood, adoption or homelessness in America? Or about all three?
McGrady: I think it's about all of those things. But it's also about finding a tribe. The first part of the book was about figuring out how to be a mother. And then the second part of the book is after Grace arrives and figuring out how to become a mom and how to become a wife... I think I became a good mom.
CNN: A lot has happened since the book was published?
McGrady: Yeah, so very sadly, my ex-husband, who's called Peter in the book, he died in January. So we are now navigating that.
CNN: Were you ever nervous about Grace growing too close to her birth parents?
McGrady: Not really. I wondered a little that if they'd stay too long if she'd have confusion, but she's always been pretty clear that I'm her mom and her dad was her dad. I think the more people in her life who can love her, the better. I hope someday she will have a strong relationship with them. 
CNN: What does Grace [now 7 years old] know about the book?
McGrady: I've not kept anything secret from Grace about the book. She actually has the audio book on a little CD player in her room. And she's very proud that she is on the cover.  So she likes the book. And she likes that the book is in the world.  Right now she's not that curious about Bridgett and Bill, but one day she might be, and this book is a love letter to her, to talk about that part of our family.
Washington  (CNN) - President Donald Trump -- who has previously issued baseless claims about ballot-counting and voter fraud -- warned House Republicans on Tuesday night to be "more paranoid" about vote tallies. 
Shortly after taking the stage at the National Republican Congressional Committee's spring dinner, Trump said, "We've got to watch those vote tallies," and implied, without citing a specific example, that close races had been wrongly decided for Democrats. 
"I don't like the way the votes are being tallied," Trump said. "I don't like it, and you don't like it either. You just don't want to say it because you're afraid of the press. You're afraid of the press."
While Trump's references on Tuesday night were not specific, he claimed corruption and fraud last year in Florida and Arizona elections, where close races took considerable time to resolve. His claims at the time were debunked, and in Florida, GOP Sen. Rick Scott ultimately unseated the incumbent Democrat.
Trump's call for fellow Republicans to join him in paranoia about vote counts likewise echoed his debunked claims about widespread voter fraud in the US. He claimed multiple times after the 2016 election that millions of illegal votes in California had cost him the popular vote and that voters were bused into New Hampshire from Massachusetts. 
As President, Trump has continued to claim that there is widespread voter fraud. He established a commission on the issue, only to dissolve it amid repeated controversy. 
(CNN) - US President Donald Trump said he called Chinese President Xi Jinping a "king" during a state visit to Beijing in 2017 and that the Communist Party leader appeared to appreciate the remark.
Speaking Tuesday at the National Republican Congressional Committee spring dinner in Washington, Trump said Xi had denied he was a king but the US leader insisted.
"He said, 'But I am not king, I am president.' I said 'No, you're president for life, and therefore you're king'," Trump told his audience, prompting laughter.
"He said, huh. He liked that. I get along with him great."
Trump made his visit to China in November 2017, just months before the country's rubber-stamp legislature, the National People's Congress, removed the two-term limit on the Chinese presidency in March 2018.
The move cleared the way for Xi to serve indefinitely as China's head of state, strengthening his grip on power. China abolished monarchical rule in 1912 when the last emperor of the Qing dynasty, Pu Yi, was overthrown to establish the Republic of China.
Trump was given red-carpet treatment during his visit to Beijing, becoming the first foreign leader to dine in the Forbidden City since the founding of modern China.
Following Trump's trip to China the relationship between the two  countries has grown rockier. Starting early in 2018, Trump began imposing tariffs on billions of dollars' worth of Chinese exports to narrow the trade deficit, sparking a trade war.
In his speech to the Republican committee, Trump said that had he not imposed the tariffs, the Chinese economy would have caught up with the United States within years.
"They would have caught us within a short period of time ... within two years, by the end of my term, if you had a normal president ... they would have caught us. But right now it's going to be a long time before they catch us," he said.
US and Chinese negotiators have been meeting in Beijing and Washington in recent weeks to hammer out a comprehensive trade deal. Trump said his administration was standing up to China's "chronic trade abuses."
"They've taken advantage of our country and you know what, I respect them for it. I say it, we should have been doing that to them," he said.
(CNN) - The death of an 8-year-old Guatemalan boy who died while in United States custody was caused by complications from the flu and a bacterial infection, the Central American country's foreign ministry said. 
Felipe Gómez Alonzo died of Influenza B complicated by a staph bacteria infection that led to sepsis, the Guatemalan Foreign Ministry said.
Marta Larra, the ministry's spokeswoman, said Guatemalan officials received an autopsy report on Monday. 
Influenza B is among the viruses that cause seasonal epidemics most winters in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The New Mexico Office of the Medical Investigator said it has not finalized its autopsy report on Felipe's death, said Alexandra Sanchez, the office's spokeswoman.
The office had said Felipe tested positive for Influenza B but a cause of death had not been determined at the time.
CNN has reached out to US Customs and Border Protection for comment.
The boy died on Christmas Eve at Gerald Champion Regional Medical Center in Alamogordo, New Mexico, about 90 miles north of the border crossing in El Paso, Texas.
He was detained with his father for illegal entry about 3 miles west of the Paso del Norte port of entry in El Paso.
Felipe was taken to the hospital after a border agent noticed signs of illness, and the medical staff first diagnosed him with a common cold and later detected a fever. 
"The child was held for an additional 90 minutes for observation and then released from the hospital midafternoon on December 24 with prescriptions for amoxicillin and Ibuprofen," CBP said in a statement. Amoxicillin is a commonly prescribed antibiotic.
The boy began vomiting later that evening and was taken back to the hospital for evaluation. He died hours later, the CBP said. 
Felipe's body was repatriated to Guatemala and was laid to rest in Yalambojoch in January, his half-sister said. 
His father, Agustín Gómez Pérez was released from CBP custody and is still in the United States, a family member said.
Felipe was the second Guatemalan child to die in US border patrol custody in December. 
Jakelin Caal Maquin, 7, died in a hospital two days after she and her father were taken to a Border Patrol station.
An autopsy report released last week revealed she died from a bacterial infection known as streptococcal sepsis. 
The infection was "rapidly progressive," which led to "multiple organ dysfunction and death," said the report from the medical examiner's office in El Paso County, Texas. 
Washington  (CNN) - President Donald Trump hasn't stopped railing against Jerome Powell, his Federal Reserve chairman, for holding back the US economy.
His recent complaints during at least three meetings this week, reported by the Wall Street Journal, come despite Powell taking steps to indefinitely pause raising interest rates this year and halting plans to shrink its balance sheet, two things Trump has repeatedly pressed for as recently as last week in a tweet.
The President reportedly blamed Powell during meetings with Republican senators and staffers that if it hadn't been for a string of rate increases by the Fed -- four in total -- last year's stocks would have risen higher and the budget deficit would not have widened as much, according to the Journal.
One person, who heard the comments made by the President about Powell, described it as "pretty rough," according to the Journal.
Trump also blamed Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin for recommending him to the job. "Mnuchin gave me this guy," Trump said according to the person who heard the comments, the paper reported.
In a recent telephone conversation, Trump told Powell, "I guess I'm stuck with you," the person recalled, according to the Journal.
A Fed spokeswoman confirmed to CNN that Powell had a brief conversation with Trump on March 8, but declined to elaborate any further.
A White House spokesman could not be immediately reached for comment.
Powell has said repeated political attacks by Trump have had zero influence on the central bank's decision to slow down interest rate hikes.
"Not at all. Not at all," said Powell in an interview with the CBS news program "60 Minutes," two days after his telephone conversation with Trump. "And it's very important that the public understand that we are always going to make a decision based on what we think is right for the American people."
Powell explained that the Fed's decision in January to pause raising rates was because the global economy was showing signs of slowing and other risks to the US economy were rising.
The Fed chairman has repeatedly made the case for a patient, measured approach, describing the US economy in a "good place," where policy makers "don't feel any hurry to change our interest rate policy."
Trump has made a habit of lashing out at the Fed over interest rate hikes, but lately, his top economic advisers have joined in, too -- breaking the code of conduct shared by bankers and economists to display solidarity with their boss.
The latest attack came from National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow, who said in multiple interviews last week that last year's interest rate hikes were undermining the Trump administration's campaign promise of attaining 3% sustained economic growth -- a claim amplified on Trump's own Twitter feed.
Kudlow called on the world's most influential central bank to cut rates "immediately," marking the first time a top administration official had publicly called for a cut -- and specifically argued that the Fed should shave off half a percentage point, effectively erasing two of the four rate hikes the central bank agreed to last year.
"I am echoing the President's view -- he's not been bashful about that view," Kudlow said in an interview on CNBC, shortly after Axios published similar comments.
His remarks have closely echoed those of Stephen Moore, another former television commentator-turned-distinguished fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation, who Trump said he plans to nominate to the Fed Board of Governors. Moore has said the Fed was wrong to raise rates in September and December and has since called on the central bank to reverse course by cutting rates by half a percentage point.
(CNN) - President Donald Trump's surprising new position last week on taking another legislative run at repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act left Republican lawmakers scrambling in his wake. 
But several, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, took a proven path to try and talk Trump down from what they saw as an untenable position on the divisive issue: talk to him directly.
Over the course of several days, Republican lawmakers attempted to dissuade Trump from his stated idea that Republicans should craft a new replacement plan, according to multiple sources. 
The focus, some argued, should be on prescription drug costs. But definitely staying away from a fractious intraparty debate that House Republicans like Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy firmly believe cost the GOP the House in the 2018 midterms. 
Or in what several sources called the most persuasive argument: framing the election around Democratic calls for Medicare-for-all. That was a specific message from McConnell in a weekend phone call, the sources said. 
The point was that with Democratic presidential candidates -- not to mention the energy of the progressive base -- are lining up behind the proposal, it provided a ripe target for the party. Add to that any Senate Republican effort this Congress would be completely rebuffed by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and that defending Obamacare was a unifying issue for Democrats. It makes political sense, rather, for Republicans to be patient rather than throw out their own -- potentially unpopular -- plans.
"(Trump) has some big ideas and to his credit wants to solve problems. That's what leaders do," said Sen. John Thune, R-South Dakota. "But you run into that wall of reality at some point, and, I think, trying to convey what the obstacles are to getting done what he wants done, done in the next two years, is something a number of our members conveyed to him."
Republican campaign arms and outside groups had already launched initial salvos attacking the Medicare-for-all proposal, (or in McConnell's parlance: "Medicare-for-none") and are working on shifting the focus at this stage could create new openings for frontline Democratic candidates and risks for Trump himself. 
McConnell and other Republican lawmakers have also already spent time attacking Democrats on the proposal in floor speeches and press conferences themselves. 
"I look forward to seeing what the President is proposing and what he can work out with the speaker," McConnell told Politico in a brief interview last week. "I am focusing on stopping the 'Democrats' Medicare for none' scheme."
The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Trump's calls with McConnell.
The calls, especially McConnell's, had an impact on the President, who, according to one of the sources, secured the commitment that Trump would instead focus his energy on attacking Medicare-for-all and wait to see what the election led to before moving forward on any legislative efforts. 
It was a framing reflected by the President himself in a tweet thread Monday night, that amounted to a full flip from his claims last week, and once again displays his haphazard approach to policymaking.
"Everybody agrees that ObamaCare doesn't work," Trump tweeted. "Premiums & deductibles are far too high - Really bad HealthCare! Even the Dems want to replace it, but with Medicare for all, which would cause 180 million Americans to lose their beloved private health insurance." 
"The Republicans are developing a really great HealthCare Plan with far lower premiums (cost) & deductibles than ObamaCare. In other words it will be far less expensive & much more usable than ObamaCare," Trump said. "Vote will be taken right after the Election when Republicans hold the Senate & win back the House."
But one White House official said Trump's tweets "shouldn't be misunderstood to mean we won't be pushing our own version of health care -- basically health care policy principles." 
The official said Trump is acknowledging the reality that there is not much hope for "Trumpcare" -- whatever that plan might be -- to make it through a Democratic-controlled House. 
"He's just being realistic that there's no room for bipartisanship on this prior to 2020," the official said. 
A separate senior White House official said Trump is simply stating more explicitly what White House aides have always known: that there will be no bill to replace Obamacare that can get through this Congress. 
However, the official said "there is every intention of having a proposal" that Republicans can put on the table.
And yet, multiple White House officials Tuesday morning declined to commit that the President would actually release a plan before the 2020 election. 
When asked by CNN if the President will commit to releasing a plan before the election, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said she would not answer the question, saying only the President wants to talk about "principles."
(CNN) - Nine days ago, Donald Trump got the best news of his presidency: Special counsel Robert Mueller ended his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and, according to Attorney General William Barr, concluded that there had been no conspiracy between the Russian government and the Trump campaign. Less than 48 hours after that news broke came word that Michael Avenatti, one of Trump's main antagonists over the first two years of his presidency, had been arrested on charges of attempted extortion and bank and wire fraud.
Put those two developments together and Trump should be enjoying one of the most positive periods of his presidency. Except that he's not. Because of, well, him.
Even as America was still chewing over Barr's summary of the Mueller report, the Trump administration announced that it was changing course and supporting a Texas judge's decision that would totally invalidate the Affordable Care Act. Then, later in the week, Trump announced that he might close our southern border with Mexico entirely if Central American countries don't restrict people trying to illegally enter the US. And, of late, he has sought to keep Congress from passing more funding for Puerto Rico's ongoing recovery from Hurricane Maria. He's kept all three issues on the front burner in the days since, tweeting up a storm.
This past 10 days should serve as conclusive evidence of one thing: Donald Trump isn't playing three-dimensional chess with his presidency. He doesn't have some sort of grand blueprint against which he has been and continues to execute. There is no method to this madness, he is making it up as he goes along. 
Every day is a blank slate to Trump. What he said yesterday doesn't matter to him -- nor is it indicative of what he will say and do today or tomorrow. He takes in events and reacts to them in real time. Then he reacts to the reaction his actions create. That's it. Any attempt to ascribe his actions to a deeper, more textured strategic gambit is looking for something that just isn't there. And never has been.
Take health care. In the wake of the decision to back the complete elimination of the ACA, Trump told anyone who would listen that a) Obamacare was terrible b) premiums were too high c) Republicans had a plan and d) the GOP would be the party of health care, just you watch! Congressional Republicans all-but-publicly acknowledged that there was no plan and that, if Trump wanted a plan, he had better come up with it himself.  
Then came this presidential declaration, delivered in a trio of tweets Monday night: 
"Everybody agrees that ObamaCare doesn't work. Premiums & deductibles are far too high - Really bad HealthCare! Even the Dems want to replace it, but with Medicare for all, which would cause 180 million Americans to lose their beloved private health insurance. The Republicans are developing a really great HealthCare Plan with far lower premiums (cost) & deductibles than ObamaCare. In other words it will be far less expensive & much more usable than ObamaCare. Vote will be taken right after the Election when Republicans hold the Senate & win back the House. It will be truly great HealthCare that will work for America. Also, Republicans will always support Pre-Existing Conditions. The Republican Party will be known as the Party of Great HealtCare. Meantime, the USA is doing better than ever & is respected again!"
Remarkable! Not only is Trump punting from his assertion last week that Republicans would have a plan ready to go if/when the courts invalidate the ACA , he's also wrapping his arms around the idea of the 2020 election as a referendum on health care!
That is a very bad idea -- for both Trump and Republicans. Why?  Look at the 2018 election. Democrats' entire campaign to take back the House was premised on the GOP majority vote in favor of a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. (The plan passed the House but died in the Republican-controlled Senate.) Democrats ran thousands and thousands of ads painting Republicans as the party who tried to get rid of popular elements of the ACA like no discrimination based on pre-existing conditions and kids being allowed to stay on a parent's insurance until age 26.  And it worked. More than four in 10 voters said that health care was the most important issue facing the country; that group voted for Democratic candidate over GOP one 75%-23%. "Health care was on the ballot, and health care won," Speaker Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) said in the wake of the election.
They say the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. Which sort of seems like what Trump is doing here. We lost badly in a referendum on health care in 2018. Let's overtly re-run that fight in 2020!
Then there is Trump's ramping-up of his rhetoric regarding the ongoing immigrant crises at the border. In just the past few days, he has floated the totally impractical idea of closing down the southern border entirely and floated the likes of arch-conservatives Kris Kobach and Ken Cuccinelli to serve as a possible immigration czar.
These moves come just weeks after Trump declared a national emergency at the border in order to take money previously approved for other purposes and re-allocate it to build his border wall. Trump made that move despite a majority of Americans consistently telling pollsters that a) they don't believe constructing a wall will solve the immigration crises and b) they opposed his national emergency declaration. So unpopular was Trump's national security pronouncement that the Republican-majority Senate approved a resolution of disapproval on the move, forcing Trump to issue the first veto of his presidency.
Picking a fight on immigration is -- and stop me if you have heard this one -- a bad idea, politically speaking. In a CNN-SSRS poll conducted last month just 39% of people said they approved of how Trump was handling immigration, while 58% disapproved. And that's a consistent finding. Trump's approval on immigration hasn't been higher than 41% in CNN polling since March 2017.
Politics is the art of fighting on ground favorable to you because it increases the chance of you winning. And winning is the name of the game. Trump is doing the exact opposite of that right now. Handed two issues that seemed ready-made for him to run with for weeks if not months, Trump inexplicably pivoted to two other issues on which the playing field is already tipped against him.
If this doesn't make sense to you, it's because it doesn't make sense. Trump isn't a grand political strategist, a puppeteer pulling the strings of the media and the Democrats based on some script that only he can see. Instead, he just picks up a different puppet every day and makes it talk. There's no rhyme or reason. No secret sauce. Just Donald Trump doing and saying whatever he's hot on at that particular second.
(CNN) - President Donald Trump on Monday night backed away from his push for a vote on an Obamacare replacement until after the 2020 elections, bowing to the political reality that major health care legislation cannot pass in the current Congress.
Trump's statements come a week after his administration announced that it now agreed with a judge's ruling that the entire Affordable Care Act should be scrapped. The opinion was a dramatic reversal from the administration's previous stance that only portions of the act could not be defended.
Trump's latest move allows him to wait on the issue as legal challenges against the health care law, also known as Obamacare, make their way through the federal court system. If it's ultimately overturned, Trump can claim he made good on a campaign promise in time for his 2020 re-election campaign -- though he would then face the prospect of an estimated 20 million Americans losing their health insurance on his watch, with no Republican replacement in the legislative pipeline. If it's upheld -- as it has been in previous Supreme Court challenges -- he can rail against a "liberal" court system.
"The Republicans are developing a really great HealthCare Plan with far lower premiums (cost) & deductibles than ObamaCare. In other words it will be far less expensive & much more usable than ObamaCare. Vote will be taken right after the Election when Republicans hold the Senate & win back the House. It will be truly great HealthCare that will work for America," Trump declared in a series of tweets. "Also, Republicans will always support Pre-Existing Conditions. The Republican Party will be known as the Party of Great HealtCare. Meantime, the USA is doing better than ever & is respected again!"
Trump unsettled Republican lawmakers last week by putting the spotlight back on the thorny issue of repealing and replacing Obamacare, vowing that his party would turn to replacing the health care law as his administration backed a federal court ruling striking down the law in its entirety. Republican congressional leaders quickly sought to distance themselves from Trump's latest drive, mindful that passing such a proposal would be virtually impossible in a divided Congress.
Trump's tweets dialed back expectations that Republicans would be able to pass major health care legislation before the 2020 election, but his promise of a vote that would hinge on a Republican takeback of the House ensures nonetheless that health care will figure prominently in 2020. That is a fight Republicans are wary to have after they suffered huge losses in 2018 congressional races in large part over the issue of health care.
That trepidation did not stop Trump last week from reversing his administration's previous legal position that only certain parts of Obamacare should be struck down, instead arguing that the entire law should be scrapped. The appeals process will likely stretch into next year.
Long-sought campaign promise
Trump has been stymied on one of his primary campaign promises -- to repeal the signature law of his predecessor -- despite multiple attempts in Congress. Trump attempted on multiple occasions to repeal Obamacare during 2017, when his party was in control of both chambers of Congress, but failed to do so due to a lack of support within his own party. 
The failed attempts proved to be a galvanizing force for Democrats in the 2018 midterms. Health care was the top issue for Democratic and independent voters, and focusing on the issue helped Democrats take over the House in January.
The President has insisted in recent days that, despite his administration's position that all of the ACA should be struck down, the GOP will be the party of health care. He's also repeatedly promised to protect people with pre-existing conditions, a provision that would be eliminated if the federal district judge's ruling in a Texas case is upheld on appeal.
Trump said Thursday he's asked Republican senators to work on a replacement to the Affordable Care Act, but no such group appears to exist. Multiple Republican senators who Trump name-checked said they were not a part of a working group, but had spoken with the President about health care recently.
And on Wednesday, Marc Short, Vice President Mike Pence's chief of staff and the former White House legislative affairs director, claimed on CNN that "the President will be putting forward plans this year" to replace Obamacare through Congress.
White House officials were quick to tell CNN that Short had gotten ahead of White House deliberations.
The White House has yet to decide whether it will take the lead on crafting an Obamacare replacement, they said, or whether the President will punt to Republican lawmakers.
Washington  (CNN) - Unclear advancement opportunities, low pay and poor management have pushed Transportation Security Administration officers to leave their jobs, a recently released government watchdog report said.
The inspector general for the Department of Homeland Security reviewed exit surveys from outgoing security officers and said "common themes" from the surveys included "dissatisfaction with career advancement opportunities and issues with management's competence and communication."
"The most commonly selected reason for leaving TSA was dissatisfaction with career advancement opportunities and processes," the summary of exit interview findings said. 
TSA requests that outgoing employees take a voluntary exit survey, but, according to the inspector general, TSA "does not fully analyze" those surveys. 
The report said the complaint about career advancement applied to both full-  and part-time employees. Likewise, both full- and part-time employees commonly cited dissatisfaction with management -- including incompetence, poor communication and disrespect by supervisors -- along with broad complaints about low pay. 
"Almost three-quarters of those who completed the voluntary exit surveys said the new job would pay more," the report said. 
Full-time employees also commonly cited complaints about senior TSA leadership, while part-time employees commonly cited dissatisfaction with scheduling.
While the report said TSA faced retention issues at airports of all sizes, it noted that at small airports -- some with as few as four officers -- security officers leave at higher rates.  
"For example, at one airport, officials indicated that a local retail store offered comparable salaries to TSOs," the report said. "Additionally, one TSA official reported that a sandwich shop chain offered a higher salary than an entry-level TSO."
The report said TSA had accepted all nine of the inspector general's recommendations to target the staffing issues and had taken satisfactory steps to meet three of them. Among the recommendations left open in the report were steps geared at improving the hiring process, improving and utilizing exit interviews and having TSA "examine increases in pay based upon skill level for Transportation Security Officers that could help attract and retain a strong workforce." 
TSA chief David Pekoske was on Capitol Hill on Tuesday afternoon, where he praised his workforce for working without pay through the recent partial government shutdown and committed in his written testimony to "look at various options under the broad scope of TSA's authorities to demonstrate our commitment to the workforce, reward high performers, reduce turnover, and improve employee morale." 
Asked at a House Appropriations Committee hearing about issues with retaining security officers, Pekoske said TSA attrition rates are "too high" and outlined actions the agency had taken to try to fix the issue, including establishing a "career progression plan" and appointing a panel to review TSA management of "human capital." 
The report said that over the 2016-2017 budgetary years, TSA had hired "more than 19,300 TSOs, yet lost more than 15,500 during this same period."
"TSA spends millions annually to hire and train new TSOs to replace those who leave the agency," the inspector general said.
The inspector general argued further that the retention and training issues for security officers at TSA were "contributing factors to airport security weaknesses."
(CNN) - Classmates of a South Carolina fifth-grade student who died after a fight at school will dress in pink and purple, her favorite colors, at a remembrance later this week. 
Ten-year-old Raniya Wright died last Wednesday, two days after she was injured in a fight at Forest Hills Elementary School in Walterboro, about an hour's drive west of Charleston. A number of questions remain unanswered, including what led to the confrontation between Raniya and another student.
Students will make posters and cards for Raniya's family on Friday, Sean Gruber, a spokesman for the Colleton County School District, told CNN in an interview on Tuesday.
"It's been very tough," Gruber said. 
The girl's funeral is scheduled for Wednesday.
The district planned to release a letter on Tuesday informing students and teachers there is an ongoing investigation into the death. 
Gruber declined to comment on that investigation or whether bullying played a role.
Raniya's father, Jermaine Van Dyke, has made a public plea for answers about what happened to his daughter.
"I'm here today looking for justice for my daughter," Van Dyke told reporters this week. "I want just to find out what happened, how it happened, and who was involved." 
There is no video from inside the classroom, but there is video from the hallway, according to Van Dyke's attorney, Mark Peper.
Raniya's parents have not seen that footage, Peper said. They plan to conduct their own investigation, which includes meeting with parents of children who were in the classroom where the fight occurred, according to Peper. 
Autopsy results are expected to be released within the next 10 days, Peper said. 
Raniya suffered serious injuries from what authorities say was a fight on March 25. The fight did not involve weapons, according to the Colleton County Sheriff's Office.
Officials said they stopped the fight, and Raniya was taken to the school nurse's station. She was unconscious when paramedics arrived and took her to a nearby hospital, according to a sheriff's department report. She was later airlifted to the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston, where she died.
After Raniya's death, pink stuffed animals were laid at the entrance of her school. 
(CNN) - The nation's tallest dam reopened its spillway on Tuesday, more than two years after it failed and forced nearly 200,000 people to evacuate their homes, authorities announced. 
Construction crews have been working to rebuild the spillway at the Oroville Dam in Northern California since May 2017, and have restored its "full functionality," said Joel Ledesma, deputy director of the California Department of Water Resources.
Authorities said they will be closely monitoring the spillway's operations as it faces its first big test since its collapse.
Why did it fail?
Powerful storms across California in February 2017 caused Lake Oroville's water level to rise and overflow the dam. The water could not be drained fast enough, and the dam's main spillway -- which catches excess water when Lake Oroville's water level rises to overflow the dam -- had developed a hole the size of a football field and 40 feet deep due to erosion.
For the first time in the nearly 50 years since it was built, water was diverted into the emergency spillway, which was covered with brush, trees and rock. As millions of gallons of water washed over the emergency spillway, it eroded further.
Authorities feared that the spillway would fail and send water downstream. 
They ordered evacuations in the nearby town of Oroville, which is about 75 miles north of Sacramento. The 770 feet dam provides flood control for the region.
Why is it reopening now?
It's been an unusually wet winter in California, and more storms are likely coming later in the week.
State officials said they need to use the spillway to control the rising water in Lake Oroville -- one of the state's key reservoirs. 
Ledesma said authorities are "operating the reservoir to ensure public safety of those downstream."
The Lake Oroville reservoir is currently 81% full at 854 feet, according to DWR's estimates.  
In February 2017, the reservoir topped 900 feet.
How does it work?
The water began flowing Tuesday when the gates at the top of the dam were opened.
The Department of Water Resources says it expects to initially be releasing 8,300 cubic feet per second. The spillway has been rebuilt to handle water flowing at a rate of 270,000 cubic feet of water per second, significantly more than officials would ever expect to release.  
Crews have installed temporary cameras and lights along the spillway, so they can monitor the water around the clock as it flows down the chute. 
Why do officials think it won't collapse again?
Built in the 1960s, the spillway lacked modern enhancements and hadn't been properly fortified, according to a report by a panel of independent investigators released after the spillway collapsed. The panel blamed the problem on "long-term systemic failure," including issues with the original design.  
And a Sacramento environmental group said they had urged officials to reinforce the spillway in 2005 because it didn't meet modern safety standards.
Officials have expressed confidence that the repairs -- costing more than $1 billion -- will avert any potential crisis.
"The Oroville main spillway was designed and constructed using 21st century engineering practices and under the oversight and guidance from state and federal regulators and independent experts," Ledesma said.
The renovation is considered the biggest and fastest construction project in state history. It required enough concrete to fill more than 370 Olympic-sized swimming pools.
During the two phases of the repair, crews worked to cover the spillway with structural concrete, install cutoff walls on the sides and reinforce the concrete with 12.4 million pounds of steel, officials said. 
Ron Stork, policy director of the conservationist nonprofit Friends of the River and a flood management expert, said he doesn't anticipate immediate problems with the spillway but believes more repairs need to be done. 
"They've got many hundreds of millions of dollars if not more of work yet to be done," he said.
The strength of a secondary emergency spillway could be an issue, Stork said, as well as potentially broken and cracked "anchor tendons" that are integral for raising and lowering the spillway gates.
The main spillway is prepared to reopen, water resources officials said, and work on the emergency spillway is expected to be finished later this year. 
Correction: This story has been updated to reflect that the spillway reopened Tuesday after failing two years ago.
(CNN) - Lawmakers in South Carolina plan to introduce legislation to require ride-share vehicles to display illuminated signs in the wake of the death of a USC student who got into a vehicle she believed was her Uber.
The bill would attempt to address an issue fundamental to how Uber and Lyft function. Whereas taxi cabs are required to be painted certain colors or have noticeable markings, the appeal of ride-share apps is that drivers can use their own vehicle to make money.
On Tuesday, South Carolina Rep. Seth Rose and co-sponsor Rep. Micah Caskey plan to file the "Samantha L. Josephson Ridesharing Safety Act" bill to make it easier for riders to identify Uber and Lyft vehicles. 
Josephson, a 21-year-old student at the University of South Carolina, had called for an Uber around 2 a.m. Friday in Columbia outside a bar. She was last seen getting into a black vehicle that was not her Uber. Her body was found with multiple sharp force injuries 14 hours later in a field about 90 miles away, authorities said.
Police arrested Nathaniel David Rowland on murder and kidnapping charges after an officer saw him driving a vehicle that matched the one seen in the surveillance video. Josephson's blood was found in the car's passenger side and the trunk, and her cell phone was in the passenger compartment, authorities said.
The ride-share apps have a number of safety features that provide checks for riders so that they don't get into the wrong vehicle, as happened to Josephson. 
For example, the Uber app informs the rider of the make, model and color of the vehicle, the license plate number and the driver's name and photo. Uber and Lyft also allow drivers and riders to text or call each other, and riders can send their trip information and location to friends during the ride.
Under current South Carolina law, ride-share drivers are required to have reflective stickers.
What other campuses have done
The issue of fake Uber drivers is particularly acute on college campuses, full of tech-savvy students who often use Uber and Lyft as a way to get around, especially when drinking alcohol.
Uber said it has been working with police and college campuses to address this issue.
"Since 2017, we've been working with local law enforcement and college campuses across the country to educate the public about how to avoid fake ride-share drivers," an Uber spokesperson said. "Everyone at Uber is devastated to hear about this unspeakable crime, and our hearts are with Samantha Josephson's family and loved ones. We remain focused on raising public awareness about this incredibly important issue."
Several college towns, including Columbia in the past few days, have taken steps in the wake of violent incidents.
Since Josephson's death, Columbia Police placed fliers with safety tips for ride-share and taxi rides onto the windows of businesses in the city. The flier highlights a specific drop-off and pick-up zone, and advises riders to cross streets at crosswalks, put down their phones and avoid excessive alcohol consumption.
In an interview with CNN, Rose noted that USC currently holds a University 101 class for students that offers a crash course in what to do and what not to do in Columbia. He plans to send a formal letter to USC's president and board of trustees asking them to incorporate ride-share safety advice into that course.
"I think every place across this country, every university, needs to take note that this is a real danger and we need to take precautions to educate everyone that this is a possibility," Rose said.
Florida Gulf Coast University had a similar reaction after an alleged assault by a fake Uber driver in August 2017. In that case, a female student mistakenly got into a car she believed was from a ride-share service, university police said, and the driver then allegedly assaulted the student.
The university said officials speak on a regular basis with students, including at orientation, about the importance of personal safety.
"We encourage them to adopt the buddy system with their friends to minimize a criminal's opportunity to exploit a situation like we believe happened in this case you referenced," the university said in a statement. 
"At the time the crime occurred, our University Police issued a reminder to all students and employees to carefully confirm the make, model and license plate of a private transportation company's car to make sure they are getting into the right vehicle."
In November 2017, police said a man posing as an Uber driver sexually assaulted a woman on American University's campus, according to CNN affiliate WJLA. DC Superior Court records showed that the victim and her boyfriend had flagged down the suspect and paid him in cash, WJLA reported, and the assault allegedly occurred after the boyfriend left the vehicle.
Court records show that the vehicle did have an Uber sticker visible, according to WJLA.
An American University spokesman said they have a number of safety features and advice for students taking ride-shares.
"We advise students to follow the safety policies of the ride-share services, including using the app to call and identify an authorized driver, rather than relying on a window decal," the spokesman said. 
"In addition, AUPD offers a safety app called Rave Guardian that can be used in the District of Columbia. Rave Guardian has an emergency icon for Campus Police and Local Police Emergencies depending on on- or off-campus use.
"Finally, AUPD offers a Safe Ride back to Campus program. If a student finds themselves stranded in DC for any reason, they can call a cab and have it take them to University Police headquarters. The student should notify AUPD that they are on their way by calling 202-885-2527. AUPD will pay for the cab and place the charge on the student's account, ensuring that even without money or a ride, students can always return safely to campus. This service can be utilized within a 10-mile radius of the main campus."
Columbia, South Carolina  (CNN) - A college student whose body was found in a field hours after she got into a vehicle she mistakenly thought was her Uber ride died from multiple sharp force injuries, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division said.
Samantha Josephson, 21, a student at the University of South Carolina, called an Uber around 2 a.m. Friday in Columbia, and was last seen getting into a black Chevy Impala, said Columbia Police Chief W.H. "Skip" Holbrook. Turkey hunters found her body 14 hours later in the field in Clarendon County, about 90 miles away.
The Law Enforcement Division cited an autopsy report from the Clarendon County coroner. Authorities declined Monday to release additional information. 
Josephson's body had numerous wounds, including on her head, neck, face, upper body, leg and foot, according to arrest warrants for suspect Nathaniel David Rowland. 
Surveillance video of Josephson outside a bar shows her standing by herself on a curb on the morning she disappeared. She takes several steps toward a black vehicle that pulls up to a parking spot. She reaches for the door handle of the vehicle as it slows down and gets inside, the video shows.
Josephson and her roommates had gotten separated the night they went out, Holbrook said. Her roommates grew worried the next morning. They looked for her and called Columbia police around 1:30 p.m. Friday to report her missing, Holbrook said.
Police arrived at the home where Josephson and her roommates lived that day. 
Josephson's friends also went around Columbia with her photo on Friday asking whether anyone had seen her.
Iley Wildes, who co-owns Natural Vibrations, a store located next to a bar where Josephson was last seen, recalled Josephson's boyfriend and roommates came in to her store with a photo of Josephson. They also wanted to see the store's surveillance video, Wildes told CNN.
"They seemed very concerned and distraught," she said. 
Early Saturday, police arrested Rowland, 24, in Columbia after an officer saw him driving an Impala that matched the description of the vehicle seen in surveillance video. Police found Josephson's blood in the car's passenger side and trunk, authorities said. Her cell phone was found in the passenger compartment, police said. 
Investigators found a container of liquid bleach, germicidal wipes and window cleaner in the car, Holbrook said. 
Rowland faces charges of murder and kidnapping in connection with Josephson's death. 
He waived his right to a scheduled court appearance on Sunday. Fielding Pringle, his public defender, declined to comment. Rowland was listed as being held in jail in Columbia. Arrest warrants listed his home as New Zion, an unincorporated community in Clarendon County. 
Rowland's mother told CNN affiliate WACH that she talked to her son and he denied the allegations.
"He is a very good young man, and when I talked to him yesterday, and he told me that wasn't him, and I believe him," she said.
Flowers for Samantha
Josephson had worked at the Liberty Tap Room, a nearby brewery and grill, for several months, according to a manager.
Throughout the day, students in University of South Carolina clothing placed flowers in front of a memorial at a fountain in Columbia's Five Points bar district where Josephson was last seen. 
Ride-sharing guidelines from Columbia police were plastered on businesses in the Five Points area, including the bar where Josephson was before she climbed into the Impala. The guidelines pointed out where the drop-off and pick-up zone were in the area and offered safety tips and guidelines.
An Uber spokesperson in a statement said: "Since 2017, we've been working with local law enforcement and college campuses across the country to educate the public about how to avoid fake ride-share drivers. Everyone at Uber is devastated to hear about this unspeakable crime, and our hearts are with Samantha Josephson's family and loved ones. We remain focused on raising public awareness about this incredibly important issue."
Josephson, from Robbinsville, New Jersey, located east of Trenton, planned to study law in the fall at Drexel University in Philadelphia, according to her father, Seymour Josephson. He attended at a candlelight vigil Sunday on the South Carolina campus.
Josephson's funeral will be held at noon Wednesday at Congregation Beth Chaim in Princeton Junction, New Jersey, according to a post on her father's Facebook page. She will be buried in Perrineville, New Jersey.
A GoFundMe page to cover funeral and memorial costs had raised more nearly $69,000 by Tuesday afternoon.
(CNN) - Nathaniel David Rowland, the accused killer of a University of South Carolina student, wasn't in court Sunday, but that didn't stop the victim's mother from ripping into him in a statement to the judge.
"It sickens us to think that his face was the last thing that my baby girl saw on this earth. Does he even know her name?" Marci Josephson said in court, according to CNN affiliate WIS-TV.  
Her daughter, Samantha Josephson, 21, was found dead in a field Friday afternoon about 14 hours after getting into a vehicle she mistakenly thought was her Uber, said police in Columbia, South Carolina. After Rowland's arrest, police found Josephson's blood and her cellphone in his vehicle, police said.
Surveillance video of Josephson outside the bar shows her standing by herself on a curb. When a black vehicle pulls up to a parking spot, she takes several steps toward the car, opens the back right door, and gets inside, the video shows.
"His selfish, unspeakable and violent actions have created a hole in the universe," Marci Josephson said. "A hole in our universe and we see the unimaginable ripple. ..."
She said her daughter worked hard, was due to graduate from USC in May and had planned to go to law school in September. Marci Josephson said she didn't understand how a person could "randomly select a person, a beautiful girl and steal her life away." 
"There are no words to describe the immense pain, his actions have caused our family and friends. He's taken away a piece of our heart, soul and life," Josephson said.
Rowland, 24 waived his right to a scheduled court appearance Sunday, according to South Carolina Law Enforcement Division spokeswoman Kathryn Richardson. Fielding Pringle, the public defender for Rowland, said Sunday she has no statement on behalf of her client at this time.
Despite his absence in court, Josephson's family was present during the proceedings and Marci Josephson read a statement before the judge, according to WIS-TV. 
She asked the court to deny Rowland bail or the posting of a bond. 
"He should never be given the right to walk free again for what he did to my daughter, or given the opportunity to hurt anyone else," she said. 
Richardson says it's not clear when Rowland's next court appearance will be.
'She had absolutely no chance'
A vigil honoring Samantha Josephson was held on USC's campus Sunday night. 
Josephson's friends and sorority sisters all spoke about her large personality, compassion and how she brought out the best in people. 
"There are so many people here that did not know her and this community has pulled together. It's totally amazing," said Seymour Josephson, the victim's father. 
Josephson said his daughter was actually home the weekend before her death visiting Drexel University, where she planned to attend law school.
"We got to spend some time her," he said, adding that he and his wife planned to surprise their daughter the weekend of her death. 
Seymour Josephson said part of his life's mission will be to educate people on using rideshare services -- like Uber and Lyft -- safely. 
"What we have learned is ... you guys have to travel together at night," he said. "You get into an Uber, you don't know if it's an Uber. If there's two of you, something less likely will happen. Samantha was by herself, she had absolutely no chance." 
Josephson added he never wanted to see anyone experience the same anguish as his family. 
"I can't tell you how painful this is," he said. 
Josephson's funeral will be held at noon Wednesday at Congregation Beth Chaim in Princeton Junction, New Jersey, according to a post on her father's Facebook page. She will be buried in Perrineville, New Jersey.
A mistaken Uber ride turned deadly, police say
Samantha Josephson called an Uber around 2 a.m. Friday after being separated from her roommates during a night out, said Columbia Police Chief W.H. "Skip" Holbrook during a news conference Saturday. 
Josephson hopped into a black Chevy Impala, thinking it was her ride and about 14 hours later turkey hunters found her body in a field in Clarendon County, about 90 miles from Columbia, he said.
"What we know now is that she had, in fact, summoned an Uber ride and was waiting for that Uber ride to come," Holbrook said, citing surveillance footage. "We believe that she simply mistakenly got into this particular car thinking it was an Uber ride."
Josephson's body was found with numerous wounds including on her head, neck, face, upper body, leg and foot, according to arrest warrants for Nathaniel Rowland released by the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED).
The SLED warrant also says that blood belonging to Josephson was found in the trunk and passenger compartments of the vehicle Rowland was driving when he was arrested. 
Rowland was arrested early Saturday after an officer saw him driving the Impala. He faces charges of murder and kidnapping in connection with Josephson's death, Holbrook said. He is being held in jail in Columbia. Arrest warrants listed his home address as New Zion, an unincorporated community in Clarendon County.
Rowland also faces two misdemeanor charges for failing to stop on police command and for simple possession of marijuana, Columbia Police Department Public Information Officer Jennifer Timmons said.
Police are also questioning a female acquaintance of Rowland's who was in his vehicle at the time of his arrest, Timmons said.
South Carolina governor responds to student's death
Gov. Henry McMaster said on Twitter Saturday that he's "devastated" about Josephson's death.
"She was one of the brightest young stars at @uofsc," his tweet read. "I ask every South Carolinian to join us in praying for the Josephson family. Let us also pray for the men and women of law enforcement as they fight to bring evil to justice. 
(CNN) - Samantha Josephson decided to call an Uber around 2 a.m. Friday after being separated from her roommates during a night out in Columbia, South Carolina, police said Saturday.
The 21-year-old University of South Carolina senior hopped into a black Chevy Impala, thinking it was her ride, Columbia Police Chief W.H. "Skip" Holbrook said during a news conference. 
About 14 hours later, turkey hunters found her body in a field 90 miles from Columbia, he said.
"What we know now is that she had, in fact, summoned an Uber ride and was waiting for that Uber ride to come," Holbrook said, citing surveillance footage. "We believe that she simply mistakenly got into this particular car thinking it was an Uber ride."
Holbrook said he spoke with Josephson's family prior to the press conference.
"Our hearts are broken, they're broken. There is nothing tougher than to stand before a family and explain how a loved one was murdered," he said. "It was gut wrenching, words really can't describe what they're going through."
Nathaniel David Rowland, 24, has been arrested on charges of murder and kidnapping in connection with Josephson's death, Holbrook said. He is being held in jail in Columbia. CNN has not determined if he has a lawyer yet.
Rowland also faces two misdemeanor charges for failing to stop on police command and for simple possession of marijuana, Columbia Police Department Public Information Officer Jennifer Timmons said. 
Police are also questioning a female acquaintance of Rowland, who was in his vehicle at the time of his arrest, Timmons said. 
Timmons said the acquaintance is cooperating with law enforcement and that there is no indication at this time that she was in the vehicle when Josephson got in the car. She does not face any charges from Columbia police at this time. 
Chief says student's blood found in suspect's car
Holbrook described how the case came together quickly.
Josephson's roommates began to worry when they hadn't heard from her later Friday morning. Holbrook said, and they called the police around 1:30 p.m. Friday.
While Columbia police were starting their investigation, turkey hunters found a body around 4 p.m. Friday about 40 feet off a dirt road in a wooded area in Clarendon County, southeast of Columbia, Holbrook said. It was identified as Josephson's.
Police searched for the car Josephson had gotten into and around 3 a.m. Saturday a Columbia officer saw the Impala and stopped the vehicle, Holbrook said.  When the officer asked the driver to get out the car, he ran but was quickly captured, the chief said.
Investigators searched the Impala.
Blood found in the car's passenger side and trunk was matched to Josephson's, the chief said, and her cell phone was found in the passenger compartment. Investigators also found a container of liquid bleach, germicidal wipes and window cleaner in the vehicle, he said.
Holbrook also said the child safety locks in the Impala were activated, which would make it difficult for anyone to open the back doors from the inside. 
Police haven't said how Josephson died and have not provided much information about Rowland, except to say he used to live in Clarendon County and knew the area where the body was found.
"Our investigators and agents have a lot more work to do," Holbrook said. 
CNN reached out to Uber Saturday, but the company declined to comment. Uber's online safety tips advise customers to check that the license plate, driver photo and driver name match what's listed in the app before getting in the car.
'Searching for words of wisdom and comfort'
Josephson's father, Seymour Josephson of New Jersey, confirmed his daughter's death Saturday on Facebook. 
"It is with tremendous sadness and of a broken heart that I post this! I will miss and love my baby girl for the rest of life. Samantha is no longer with us but she will not be for gotten (sic). It is extremely hard to write this and post it but I love her with all my heart. I could continue to write about her but it kills me. I sit here and cry while looking at the picture and write this," his post read. 
Josephson was a political science major, the USC College of Arts and Sciences said on Twitter.
"Our prayers are with Samantha's family & friends, & we join the entire Carolina Family in this time of grief," the college's tweet said. 
USC President Harris Pastides released a statement saying "our prayers are with the family and friends of Samantha Josephson following the devastating news of her death. Times like these leave me searching for words of wisdom and comfort." 
Pastides also advised students to "look out for one another, be active bystanders. Travel in groups and stay together."
Columbia Mayor Stephen Benjamin said "nothing mitigates the pain of the loss of a child but I have full faith & confidence in the men & women of the Columbia Police Department & SLED as they ably investigate this tragedy."
According to the Facebook page of Josephson's father, the family lives in Robbinsville Township, New Jersey, about 10 miles east of Trenton, CNN affiliate WACH-TV reported. Robbinsville Township also released a statement on Facebook about Josephson. 
"Mayor Dave Fried, B.A. Joy Tozzi and everyone in Robbinsville Township are devastated by the news that the Josephson family of Robbinsville have lost their precious Samantha. Our thoughts, prayers, boundless grief and endless support are with Seymour, Marci and Sydney at this unimaginable time," the statement read. 
(CNN) - Now that the vast majority of Americans know about Uber or Lyft, millions of people count on a safe and convenient ride with just a few taps on the phone.
But stories like the one about the South Carolina college student who was killed after getting into a car she mistook for an Uber raise questions about what riders can do to help maximize their safety. 
Here are some key safety tips for using rideshare services like Uber and Lyft: 
Wait for your ride indoors
This prevents you from standing outside unnecessarily with a phone in your hand, signaling to passing motorists that you're waiting for someone to pick you up. Instead, wait until your driver is close or has arrived before going outside. 
Confirm details when the car arrives
Don't just look at what time your driver is coming. Pay attention to the make, model and color of the car, as well as the driver's name and photo.
Make sure to match the license plate number on your screen to the one you see in real life. 
Map your own route during the ride
This is especially important if you're in a different city and aren't familiar with the route. By monitoring your own GPS navigation, you'll see if the driver is leading you astray. 
Don't share private information with your driver
This includes your personal phone number. The Uber app automatically encrypts both the driver's number and the passenger's digits to protect both sides' privacy. 
You should never share credit card info with the driver. All Lyft and Uber fares are paid through the app, and tips can be added there, too.  
Ride in the back seat
If you're the only passenger in the car, riding in the back seat gives both the passenger and driver more personal space. It also ensures you're able to get out on either side to avoid traffic. 
Tell a friend where you're going and who you're with
Both Lyft and Uber let you quickly and easily share who your driver is, where you're going and when you're supposed to get there. 
The "share status" option in the Uber app gives your friend your driver's name, photo, license plate and location. Your friend can then track your trip and see your estimated time of arrival -- even if he or she doesn't have the app. 
The "send ETA" feature on the Lyft app is very similar. It sends a text to your friend with details about the car, the driver and how far along you are on the route. 
Editor's Note: Carrie Sheffield, a conservative commentator, is the founder of Bold, a digital news network committed to bipartisan dialogue. She is also national editor for Accuracy in Media, a conservative media watchdog organization. The views expressed here are solely hers. View more opinion articles on CNN.
(CNN) - On this Equal Pay Day, it's easy for American women to get upset when we read about companies like Vice Media, which is reportedly paying a $2 million settlement to women who allegedly received less money than their equally qualified male colleagues, according to the Hollywood Reporter.
And we clearly can't be complacent in the battle for equal opportunities that our foremothers waged for the most fundamental rights, including voting, working in a chosen occupation, even opening our own checking account or securing a credit card without a husband's signature.
Yet around this time of a year, a cloud of misleading coverage about gender pay equality (like this one from Vox: "You've heard that women make 80 cents to men's dollar. It's much worse than that. More like 49 cents") which, while conveying information about the fact that women (and their pay) are not a monolith, also ultimately diminishes the true strides women have made in the workplace and beyond. These stories can leave us feeling as victims rather than victors. 
It's true that women occupy fewer positions of senior leadership and power in the workplace, and changing this ratio toward greater gender parity is the understandable goal of many women -- and one that President Trump lauded in his State Of The Union this year -- but reinforcing misinformation among ourselves is surely not a strategically sound way to advance.
The truth is that wage discrimination is illegal and has been illegal in the United States since 1963, when then-President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into law. The 1964 Civil Rights Act also protects women from workplace sexual discrimination and harassment, protections recognized by the US Supreme Court and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
When it comes to the issue of equal pay, headlines like Vox's, so common in mainstream media and social media, are often based on misleading interpretations of wage data. Most of these top line wage gap statistics don't take into account the multiple combined variables among workers like profession, education, experience, benefits, work conditions or hours worked.
They are calling something a "wage gap" when in reality it is an "earnings gap" resulting largely from women's life choices. They also don't give the complete picture of men and women with the same or similar jobs, experience, training or hours -- some women are often more interested than men in flexible or reduced work schedules in exchange for more family time and women tend to select majors in college that prepare them for lower-paying professions (studying liberal arts in college vs. finance or engineering, for example).
 As a society, we must grapple with how we value traditionally female occupations like teaching and nursing, especially as Americans' median age increases, requiring a better-educated and more productive workforce to sustain the retirement of an aging population.
Evidence from sources like the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the National Institutes of Health also tells us that men generally work longer (and less convenient) hours in more dangerous roles than women. 
Once women look at these factors, we see that in many situations, the purported gender wage gap isn't actually a measure of the often-touted "equal pay for equal work," but to a large extent, the manifestation of women prioritizing family over the workplace and fields they find more meaningful beyond just a heftier paycheck.
Thankfully, when controlling for these relevant factors, multiple academic studies show this pay gap shrinks to almost nothing. It's just $0.98 for women compared to a $1.00 for men, according to PayScale Inc.'s The State of the Gender-Pay Gap in 2019. One recent Harvard working paper analyzing Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority data found there was no gender pay gap at all, once all factors are controlled for. 
As my former boss Edward Conard notes, "one of Harvard's renowned labor economists, Claudia Goldin, examines the gender wage gap and finds that differences in cumulative career hours worked accounts for the remaining gender pay gap beyond the lower-paying professions women tend to choose -- e.g., social work versus computer programing."
Indeed, economists Mark Perry and Andrew Biggs rationally point out that if companies seek to maximize profits and they could hire exactly comparable female workers at, say 77% percent or 80% of the cost of men, why on earth would they ever hire a man again?  
In situations where there is indeed a gap, then we should fight to close it (training in negotiation can help, for example) -- but let's not discount the much more empowered position where women stand today in making those changes.
We can argue that society should continue to encourage more women to enter higher-paying fields like business and science -- as a female entrepreneur, I absolutely support this. And we can argue that women who take (or feel pressured to take) the "mommy track" should feel better supported and receive the resources they need to re-enter the workforce, if they so desire to return and advance in leadership roles. Among black and Latino women, who generally have lower earnings than Asian and white women, we must completely level the educational and societal playing fields to improve further expand economic opportunities.
But the bottom line is that it's disempowering to tell women that the marketplace is fundamentally tilted against them or to imply that the problem is insurmountable. This Equal Pay Day, like all other days, it's dangerous for women to let media figures or politicians try to build or distort a stumbling block in front of us. It's dangerous to build or distort this block in front of ourselves, too.
It's time to give women a real portrait of just how far we've come and more precisely target how our society can improve.  
(CNN) - A woman walked out of Payless with hundreds of new shoes, but none of them are for her.
Addy Tritt saw that all pairs of shoes were on sale for $1 at her local Payless in Hays, Kansas, last week, and something told her to go. 
The retail value of the shoes was around $6,000, Tritt said. She said she negotiated for 2.5 hours until she could get all of the shoes in the store -- 204 pairs -- for pennies each, and only paid $100 for the bill.
The store needed to sell the shoes anyway. Payless announced in February that it was closing all its stores across the United States and started liquidation sales.
Tritt donated all of the shoes to Nebraska flood victims. "I'm Catholic and I believe that it's just part of God's plan for me to help people," the 25-year-old graduate teaching assistant told CNN. "Whether it's volunteering in a classroom or donating, that's what I'm going to do."
Tritt says she first posted on Facebook asking for help transporting the shoes to Nebraska. A woman reached out to her volunteering to help, and Tritt gave her nearly half of the shoes.
She donated the rest -- 113 pairs of shoes -- to a drive at her alma mater, Fort Hays State University, according to the organizer, the Sigma Alpha agricultural sorority.
"The Sigma Alpha chapter at Fort Hays State University was floored by the amount of support our local community had on our drop off locations," said Emily Bennigsdorf, Sigma Alpha Beta Mu chapter president.
The shoes were delivered to Nebraska on Monday, in a tractor trailer alongside water and supplies donated by others, the sorority said. A local agricultural science program in Nebraska will distribute the donations to those in need.
Out of the 204 pairs of shoes she bought at Payless, 164 were baby shoes, two were men's and the rest were women's, Tritt said.
The store could only process 99 transactions at a time, so Tritt left with two massive receipts and one small one, she said.
"Each had 99 items on them. It said each shoe and the size. You were literally paying pennies for each pair of shoes," she said.
Tritt is no stranger to doing good deeds for people she's never met.
"I've done huge donations in the past and this is the biggest I've ever done," she said. "I have this need to help people and if I can help, I'm going to do it."
She said she has organized supply drives for animal shelters and drives for baby clothes and diapers. She also filled bookbags with school supplies for local students.
Tritt says she's been blessed in life and blessed with a new job -- she's moving to Edmond, Oklahoma, next week to work at a university. She will continue to give back wherever she is. 
"If you can help someone, you can't put a price on it. It is the best feeling in the world," Tritt said. "I will be doing this my whole life."
Editor's Note: CNN host Van Jones and Jessica Jackson are co-founders of #cut50, a bipartisan criminal justice initiative of the Dream Corps. The opinions expressed in this commentary are the authors' own. View more opinion at CNN.
(CNN) - You don't have to be a hardcore sports fan to understand that no team should be celebrating victory after only the first quarter of a game. Reasonable people might ask, then, at this early stage, why did the Trump administration host a First Step Act celebration just three months after passing the landmark criminal justice bill?
 
What was there to celebrate and what is left to be done? Plenty in both cases.
 
By way of review, the First Step Act was the big bipartisan success story of 2018. Liberals like Rep. Hakeem Jeffries and Sen. Dick Durbin joined with conservatives like Rep. Doug Collins and Sen. Chuck Grassley. We both got personally involved as advocates through cut50.org, a bipartisan reform group that we co-founded during the Obama administration.
 
We formed an unlikely bipartisan coalition -- made up of formerly incarcerated people, celebrities, corporate executives, pastors and grassroots leaders -- and found ourselves working alongside Jared Kushner, whose father had been to prison. Together, we helped pass one of the most significant rewrites of federal prison and sentencing reform laws in decades.
 
And in a move that surprised many, President Donald Trump endorsed the legislation and signed it into law. In doing so, we witnessed a real evolution of the President's views on crime and punishment. The same President whose inaugural address included a line about stopping "American carnage" came to publicly decry harsh prison sentences.
 
While passing the First Step Act represented real progress, the true measure of any law should be its impact on people's lives. As the first quarter of the First Step Act comes to a close, there are at least five things we should be celebrating:
 
     • Three-thousand people incarcerated in federal prison now have an opportunity to seek relief from outdated, unfair and, frankly, racist prison sentences. The First Step Act retroactively applies the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, which fixed a longstanding injustice by reducing the 100:1 crack-to-powder cocaine ratio (meaning that one gram of crack cocaine was weighed as equivalent to 100 grams of powder cocaine) to 18:1. Now, thousands of cases are working their way through the courts with the help of hardworking federal defenders, potentially reducing thousands of prison sentences. 
     • Three sentencing reforms included in the First Step Act went into effect the day President Trump signed the bill into law, rolling back some of the harshest penalties in federal prison sentencing. They will impact about 12,000 cases per year, involving more than 25,000 people. These reforms mean that defendants will no longer face mandatory life sentences for third strike drug offenses and federal prosecutors are no longer able to aggressively stack guns and drug charges consecutively. 
     • Thousands of people who are 60 years of age or older or suffering from "extraordinary and compelling" circumstances now have the opportunity to seek relief by petitioning the Bureau of Prisons or a judge for their release. These compassionate and elderly release provisions mean that despite their past crimes, people in prison deserve to live their last days with grace and dignity. 
     • Conservative governors and state legislatures are already going bolder on criminal justice reforms. While a few red state governors led the charge on reform efforts dating back to 2009, President Trump's endorsement of the First Step Act dramatically opened up political breathing room for bolder and more substantive changes. Already, the Arkansas state legislature voted unanimously to pass Dignity for Incarcerated Women legislation that will improve prison conditions for women. Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant recently led an effort to pass reforms that restore second chances to people coming home from prison and expand the state's drug court system. Other states like Florida, Alabama and Georgia are ushering in a new wave of reforms inspired by the First Step Act's passage.
     • Additionally, many people in prison have a renewed sense of hope. It had been more than a decade since any major reforms had passed to improve the lives of people in federal prisons. As the First Step Act's provisions come into effect, incarcerated people will see their lives tangibly improve.
 
But there is still a long way to go before the First Step Act has been fully implemented and fulfilled its promise. This is what needs to happen now:
 
     • The Department of Justice must immediately form an Independent Review Committee and begin creating the risk assessment and needs assessment system proposed in the bill, which would match incarcerated people to the programs and services most supportive of their rehabilitation. The formation of this committee was one of the first deadlines outlined in the legislation and it is relied upon by many other important provisions.
     • The Bureau of Prisons must apply the good time credit fix retroactively. This provision increased the amount of time off a prisoner would earn for good conduct and promised to apply that credit retroactively to currently incarcerated people. However, a misinterpretation by the Bureau of Prisons means that this section has not been applied in full. 
     • Congress must fund the First Step Act at its full authorization levels. Appropriators working on the budget should work with the White House to ensure that the bill is fully funded for Fiscal Year 2020.
 
We named this legislation the First Step Act for a reason. We know there is much more to be done, as our critics often point out. However, there can be no second, third, or fourth step without a first.
 
We were in attendance at the Trump administration's 2019 Prison Reform Summit and First Step Act Celebration to both celebrate the good work that has been done and continue to push for more. We were joined by lawmakers from across the country, faith leaders, business executives, cultural figures and the advocates who helped shape and pass the legislation. We also brought with us a half-dozen people who have recently been released from federal prison because of this legislation and have traveled to Washington to share their stories.
 
They had much to be thankful for -- and the President gave them all an opportunity to speak.
 
Yvonne Fountain had 10 years remaining on her prison sentence when she heard from her lawyer that his motion for her immediate release had been granted. April Johnson was ordered by a judge to be released from prison to return home and care for her terminally ill daughter and two young grandchildren. Catherine Toney, Troy Powell, and Gregory Allen have all come home within the last 30 days hoping to contribute to society by being good employees and citizens.
 
They have all experienced significant challenges, too, and talked candidly about them with staffers on Capitol Hill and White House officials.
 
As more people hear their voices, see their faces and listen to their stories, more hearts will open and more progress will be possible. After all, the stories and voices of incarcerated and formerly incarcerated people have already pushed Trump to do much more than most people ever thought he would.
 
For example, after hearing about her plight, Trump granted clemency to Alice Marie Johnson, a grandmother serving a life without parole sentence for a first-time drug offense. He talked often about the contributions that employers can make to society by hiring men and women returning home from prison. 
In May 2018, the Trump administration hosted a prison reform summit where the President first endorsed the First Step Act. Many formerly incarcerated people took part and spoke powerfully, helping to deepen the White House's commitment to the measure. As the bill stalled in the Senate, Trump publicly and privately pressured Mitch McConnell to bring it to the Senate floor for a vote.
 
When the President signed the First Step Act into law just days before Christmas, he gave Topeka K. Sam and Shon Hopwood, who had both served time in federal prison, an opportunity to share their stories before cameras in the Oval Office. At his 2019 State of the Union Address, President Trump, in front of millions of viewers and the bicameral assembly, highlighted Alice Johnson alongside another case of unjust incarceration, Matthew Charles. Neither of us will forget the President during the 2019 State of the Union address, saying "Welcome home, Matthew."
 
This time last year, practically no one believed that a bipartisan breakthrough of this scale and magnitude was even possible. For those of us who continue to believe and fight for a victory on what was once considered to be a lost cause, celebrating the First Step Act is something we experience with a great deal of pride.
Washington  (CNN) - A Senate appropriations committee heard from nine Commerce Department bureau heads on Tuesday -- but not from Secretary Wilbur Ross, who declined to appear before the panel to answer questions about his budget request for 2020.
Ross' planned absence sparked consternation among Democratic senators who had planned to ask him about his controversial decision to include a citizenship question on the upcoming 2020 census. 
It comes as House Democrats voted to subpoena Ross for key documents related to the census question.
That move was another step in the escalating war between newly empowered House Democrats and the White House, which has been reluctant to comply with requests for administration officials to testify before Congress. 
"The Department believes that the rush to issue a subpoena is premature," Michael Platt, the assistant secretary for legislative affairs at the Commerce Department, wrote in a letter to Cummings obtained by CNN.
Ross faced Democrats on the oversight panel last month but they say he left additional questions unanswered.
"The committee is simply trying to determine the real reason Secretary Ross added the citizenship question," Oversight Committee Chairman Rep. Elijah Cummings said Tuesday. "The documents and the testimony covered by these subpoenas are critical to answering that question."
Ross is expected to appear before the equivalent House appropriations subcommittee on Wednesday afternoon, but that could change. Platt's letter to Cummings noted the same officials who will testify in the Senate on Tuesday intend to appear in the House as well, differing with the original witness list.
"The subcommittee plans to do its job by holding this hearing, and we expect Secretary Ross to likewise do his job by coming and testifying, as all secretaries of Commerce have been doing before the Appropriations Committee for decades," Rep. Jose Serrano, chairman of the House subcommittee, said in a statement provided to CNN.
Senate Democrats have expressed displeasure at Ross' absence. Other administration officials, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, have declined to appear at House hearings since Democrats took control earlier this year.  
In a statement last week, Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy called Ross's decision not to attend the Senate hearing "a shame."
"I was looking forward to asking him why he misled me during his last appearance, one year ago, when he asserted that the Justice Department was 'the one who made the request' to include a controversial citizenship question on the Census," said Leahy, the top Democrat on the appropriations committee, which oversees the Commerce Department's funding.
The citizenship question has been blocked by two federal judges, and the Supreme Court is expected to rule on the matter in the coming months. 
Opponents argue polling citizenship could depress census participation rates among noncitizens, resulting in an undercount in areas with high immigrant populations and skewing congressional representation among the states.
President Donald Trump tweeted Monday that the census would be "meaningless and a waste" if it did not ask if respondents were citizens.
Ross initially told Congress he made the decision at the behest of the Justice Department. But court documents indicate he considered adding the citizenship question to the census before he received the Justice Department's memo requesting the addition, and that Ross also communicated about the subject with former White House strategist Steve Bannon and another White House adviser beforehand.
During Ross's Oversight appearance last month, Democrats sought to determine whether his motivations went beyond his official explanation that the citizenship question is necessary to enforce the Voting Rights Act. Republicans on the committee cited past censuses when the question was included — most recently in 1950 — arguing Democrats were misrepresenting the issue. 
"For the life of me, I do not know why the Democrats don't want to know how many citizens are in the United States of America," Ohio Rep. Jim Jordan, the top Republican on the panel, said during the March 14 hearing.
Some Democrats pointed to a May 2017 email in which Ross told aides he was "mystified" that action hadn't taken place on his request to include the question.
"We need to work with Justice to get them to request that citizenship be added back as a census question," he wrote at the time.
"You lied to Congress, you misled the American people, and you are complicit in the Trump administration's intent to suppress the growing political power of the non-white population," Missouri Democratic Rep. William Lacy Clay said at the time, calling on Ross to resign.
The Democrats' subpoenas would target Ross's emails about the citizenship question, as well as related DOJ documents and communications with outside entities including the White House, the Commerce Department, the Republican National Committee, the Trump campaign, and members of Congress.
Washington  (CNN) - A longtime sportswriter who claims in a new book that President Donald Trump frequently cheats at golf likened Trump's habit to a way of "showing you that he's better than you."
"He cheats like a mafia accountant. He cheats crazy. He cheats whether you're watching or not. He cheats whether you like it or not," Rick Reilly told CNN's John Berman on "New Day" Tuesday.
Reilly recounted several stories from his new book "Commander in Cheat: How Golf Explains Trump" of Trump allegedly cheating, even against professional players.
According to Reilly, Trump hit two balls in the water when he played professional golfer Tiger Woods and then claimed to have almost tied with him, kicked sportscaster Mike Tirico's ball into a bunker when the two played, and claims to have a 2.8 handicap despite professionals such as Dustin Johnson assessing him to be a 9 or 10.
Trump's caddies also allegedly know to accommodate his penchant, Reilly said -- "He kicks the ball out of the rough so many times, the caddies call him 'Pele,'" after the famous soccer player.
CNN has reached out to the White House and Trump Organization for comment. Trump is by no means the first president alleged to have cheated at golf -- an early 2000s book by Don Van Natta Jr., "First Off the Tee," said several presidents cheated at their game.
Reilly attributed Trump's motivation to cheat to a compulsion to win at all costs. 
"He has to win no matter what -- it's not that he loves golf, he just loves beating you," Reilly said. "So these guys always say he's fun to play with, always wins but then he doesn't even take your money. It's not about beating you out of the 10 bucks, it's about showing you that he's better than you."
Reilly even offered $100,000 to charity to play Trump in golf -- with a catch.
"I'll play him for 100 grand, (for) either of our charities," Reilly said. "But the rule is, we can't play his course, can't use his cheating caddies, and there's got to be a rules guy with each of us. And I'll play him all day." 
(CNN) - Nearly five years after her son Michael Brown was killed by a white police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, Lesley McSpadden was defeated in the city council election.
McSpadden was one of three candidates vying for a council seat in the St. Louis suburb. She lost to Fran Griffin Tuesday night.   
McSpadden, who also goes by Lezley, was among three candidates running to represent Ferguson's 3rd Ward. If she had been elected, she would have overseen the police department linked to her son's death. 
Brown, who was African American, was fatally shot by white Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson while walking home from a convenience store in August 2014. 
"I did this because we were all devastated over what we saw almost five years ago," said McSpadden, 39, in an interview Tuesday with CNN. "I was personally devastated because that's my son. My children witnessed the devastation."
"After watching Ferguson over these years, I've looked for progress and I haven't seen anything. My candidacy is the first step of building towards justice for my son and building towards a part of his legacy to make sure that my son did not die in vain."
McSpadden said: "The response from the community has been nothing but supportive. People have stories they want to tell, and there are concerns, worries."
The shooting death of the unarmed 18-year-old Brown sparked nationwide protests, fueling the Black Lives Matter movement. In November 2014, a grand jury chose not to indict Wilson in the case that eventually led to a Justice Department probe that accused the police department of systematic racial bias. 
The Justice Department also said its investigation did not support federal civil rights charges against Wilson.
Two years after her son's death, McSpadden wrote a memoir entitled: "Tell the Truth & Shame the Devil: The Life, Legacy, and Love of My Son Michael Brown." McSpadden wrote the book using the spelling "Lezley."
Standing in the spot where her son was killed, she announced her run for the city council last August. 
"I learned to walk again," she said then, "and this is one of my first steps." 
McSpadden said she wanted to focus on community policing, mental health and wellness, and economic equality on the council.
"I chose to come back to a place that caused me pain to make it right for them (residents)," McSpadden said. "Michael's death has taken so much out of me, but if I can help others, I would go through this process again and again and again."
Washington  (CNN) - For the second time in two months, the US Air Force has stopped accepting deliveries of new Boeing KC-46 tanker and refueling aircraft after debris was again found in some of the planes coming off the production line. 
"We actually stopped again the acceptance of the KC-46s because of foreign object debris that we found in some closed compartments," Air Force Secretary Heather Wilson told Congress Tuesday.                 
"We've got corrective action in place, including (inspections) in some of those closed compartments to make sure that the production line is being run the way that it needs to be run," she said.                    
The issue remains a quality control failure and "unrelated to design or engineering specifications," according to Ann Stefanek, an Air Force spokeswoman.         
CNN reported last month that the Air Force first halted deliveries on February 20 after trash and industrial tools — known as foreign object debris, or FOD — were found on board some planes after production was completed. 
Deliveries resumed several days later after Boeing agreed to an additional inspections plan. 
But "this week our inspectors identified additional foreign object debris and areas where Boeing did not meet quality standards," Stefanek said.
A Boeing spokesperson called resolving the issue "a company and program priority." 
"Boeing is committed to delivering FOD-free aircraft to the Air Force. Although we've made improvements to date, we can do better," company spokesperson Charles Ramey told CNN. 
"We are currently conducting additional company and customer inspections of the jets and have implemented preventative action plans. We have also incorporated additional training, more rigorous clean-as-you-go practices and FOD awareness days across the company to stress the importance and urgency of this issue. Safety and quality are our highest priority," he added.                   
The Air Force and Boeing are meeting to approve additional corrective action plans before aircraft acceptance can resume, according to Stefanek.
(CNN) - The House Oversight Committee voted Tuesday to authorize a subpoena to the former personnel security director at the Trump White House.
The committee voted to authorize subpoenas related to two issues — White House security clearances and the US Census — on Tuesday afternoon, escalating Democrats' fight against administrative stonewalling. The security clearance vote passed along party lines, while one Republican, Rep. Justin Amash of Michigan, voted with Democrats on the Census question.
Democrats voted to green light a subpoena to interview Carl Kline, the former White House official who had broad authority over the security clearance process at the White House, and whom Tricia Newbold, a current White House official, told the committee played a key role in reversing security clearance decisions for more than two dozen White House staffers.
The Oversight Committee also voted to authorize three subpoenas related to their investigation into how a question about citizenship ended up on the Census.
"If you let people go past the red line, it just doesn't work," House Oversight Chairman Elijah Cummings said Tuesday. "I don't want to issue subpoenas. I know how serious it is ... but if we ask over and over again ... we have no choice."
Cummings said all four subpoenas were served following Tuesday's vote.
The subpoena on security clearances comes after Newbold told the committee at the end of March that she had kept a list of 25 instances in which decisions not to grant security clearances were reversed by those above her.
"She raised her concerns inside the White House ... and they targeted her for retaliation," Cummings said. "Yet, despite these risks, she has agreed to identify herself publicly."
Kline's attorney, Robert Driscoll, said in a statement Tuesday that Kline asked to appear voluntarily and the White House approved his appearance. "The subpoena issued today does not change Mr. Kline's willingness to appear before the Committee to answer its legitimate questions truthfully. The facts will prove that he acted appropriately at all times," Driscoll said.
Republicans accused Democrats of just trying to embarrass the White House. Rep. Jim Jordan, the top Republican on the committee, slammed Cummings for voting to subpoena Kline after he agreed to voluntarily testify, and said Cummings had "cherry picked" information and issued a press release "after interviewing one witness."
"Now we're going to subpoena the guy," Jordan said. "I've never seen anything like this."
"Oh please," Cummings shot back.
Instead of issuing the subpoenas, Rep. Mark Green, a Tennessee Republican, proposed referring Michael Cohen, the President's former lawyer and fixer, for a perjury investigation at the Department of Justice.
But Cummings lashed out at Republican claims that he was only trying to embarrass the President. "What we are trying to do is protect our secrets," he said.
Cummings said Newbold came forward at "great personal risk."
"This lady was scared," he said. "She was scared to death and she was scared sadly of our Republican colleagues" in explaining why Democrats didn't tell Republicans about the interview until the afternoon before it occurred, which was on a Saturday.
In a letter sent to the committee Monday after Cummings released Newbold's interview, Kline's lawyer said Monday that he would be willing to voluntarily appear before the committee. But Tuesday, Cummings said it was too little too late.
The committee also authorized three subpoenas related to the census, including a subpoena to Justice Department official John Gore. Democrats said that Gore refused to answer more than 100 questions related to the Census citing issues of "separate litigation" when he'd sat for a voluntary interview. 
The second and third subpoenas were for documents from the Justice Department and from the Department of Commerce. Cummings said that the administration has sent over thousands of documents, but many were already public or were heavily redacted.
"We don't want thousands of pieces of paper, we want specific ... documents we've asked for," Cummings said.
Republicans accused Democrats of trying to influence the upcoming Supreme Court case on the citizenship question with their investigation on the census. Earlier Tuesday morning, they issued a report detailing their argument that Democrats were trying to influence the courts.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross sent a letter to Cummings Monday arguing a subpoena was premature because the department has turned over thousands of documents and he had already testified before the panel on the census issue.
"As of today, we have turned over 11,500 pages of documents to the Committee, and I voluntarily testified in front of the same Committee for nearly seven hours on this issue two weeks ago," Ross wrote. "Your letter has provided less than one business day to comply with an ultimatum: the Department must waive its good faith and legally grounded assertions of confidentiality and privilege or the Committee will issue a subpoena. However, accommodation is not capitulation. The Department believes that the rush to issue a subpoena is premature."
The House Oversight Committee investigation into security clearance issues at the White House has escalated in recent weeks amid reports that Trump pressured White House staffers to approve the security clearances of his daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner.
Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez pointed to previous reporting of White House officials using WhatsApp messages — Cummings has alleged Kushner used the app to "communicate with foreign leaders — as reason for why Congress has to get to the bottom of the White House security clearance issues.
"Really, what is next, putting nuclear codes in Instagram DMs?" Ocasio-Cortez said.
Ocasio-Cortez, leaving the hearing, told CNN that Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump should have their security clearances revoked depending on how their clearances were initially granted and were done through the "proper channels." 
"This is completely insecure, and the issue with that as we saw in the lead up to say many attacks and so many issues when we have so many channels of communication anything can get hacked, and if we don't know what hostile forces know about us, then we are putting thousands of lives at risk," Ocasio-Cortez said.
This story has been updated with additional developments Tuesday.
Washington  (CNN) - Jared Kushner, a White House adviser and President Donald Trump's son-in-law, defended his security clearance Monday, saying all the accusations against him during the past two years have turned out to be false.
"Over the last two years that I've been here I've been accused of all different types of things and all of those things have turned out to be false," Kushner told Fox News. 
Earlier Monday, CNN reported that a White House staff member had told House investigators that senior officials have overruled concerns raised about 25 individuals whose security clearances were initially denied over a range of disqualifying issues, and warned of the grave implications to national security, according to a senior Democratic lawmaker. The concerns included fears about foreign influence and potential conflicts of interests. 
A source familiar with the case told CNN that Kushner and Ivanka Trump, Trump's daughter and a White House adviser, are on the list of 25 individuals. 
"We've had a lot of crazy accusations, like that we colluded with Russia," Kushner told Fox and said he had "complied with all the different investigations" and had sat for nearly 20 hours of interviews.  
When asked if he thought he was endangering national security by having a top-secret clearance, Kushner said he believed that "because of the President's leadership, the world is safer today." 
House Oversight Chairman Elijah Cummings released a memo on Monday detailing an interview with Tricia Newbold, a White House employee who has worked for 18 years in Republican and Democratic administrations and currently serves as the adjudications manager in the Personnel Security Office. 
Newbold alleges the White House overturned the denials of 25 individuals, including two current senior White House officials, and said those decisions were occurring "without proper analysis, documentation, or a full understanding and acceptance of the risks," according to the memo. 
Cummings said he plans to issue a subpoena this week demanding an interview with Carl Kline, who served as the personnel security director at the White House during Trump's first two years in office.
For his part, Kline said he was willing to testify and asked the committee not to subpoena him.
(CNN) - A White House staff member has told House investigators that senior officials have overruled concerns raised about 25 individuals whose security clearances were initially denied over a range of disqualifying issues -- such as fears about foreign influence and potential conflicts-of-interests -- warning of the grave implications to national security, according to a senior Democratic lawmaker.
Now House Oversight Chairman Elijah Cummings plans to issue a subpoena this week demanding an interview with Carl Kline, who served as the personnel security director at the White House during President Donald Trump's first two years in office -- as part of the Democrats' investigation into the handling of the security clearance process, including for Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and the President's daughter, Ivanka Trump, who are both also White House advisers.
RELATED: Ex-White House official willing to be interviewed by House Oversight Committee, asks to not be subpoenaed
In an interview Monday night, Cummings called the situation at the Trump White House "a million times worse" than the controversy involving Hillary Clinton and her use of a private email system while she was secretary of state.
"Because what you have here are people who literally have the top secrets of the world ... and they have not been properly cleared, but even more dangerous than that ... the recommendations have gone out to say they shouldn't have," the Maryland Democrat  told CNN. "And so that should alarm each and every American."
Cummings released a memo Monday detailing an interview with Tricia Newbold, a White House employee who has worked for 18 years in Republican and Democratic administrations and currently serves as the Adjudications Manager in the Personnel Security Office. According to the memo, Newbold, whom Cummings described as a whistleblower, alleges that the White House has overturned the denials of 25 individuals, including two current senior White House officials, saying those decisions were occurring "without proper analysis, documentation, or a full understanding and acceptance of the risks."
"According to Ms. Newbold, these individuals had a wide range of serious disqualifying issues involving foreign influence, conflicts of interest, concerning personal conduct, financial problems, drug use, and criminal conduct," Democratic committee staff write in the memo.
A source familiar with Newbold's case told CNN Kushner and Ivanka Trump are on the list of 25 individuals. 
The interview took place on March 23.
During a full day of questioning before Democratic and Republican staff on the committee, Newbold aired out an array of concerns about the security clearance process, saying that the White House had stopped doing credit history checks during the review process, lacked security for personnel files and adequate staff during the review process, and allowed for an "unusually high" number of interim security clearances, including for some individuals "who were later deemed unsuitable for access to classified information," according to the memo. And Newbold contended White House officials retaliated against her because she would not easily greenlight security clearances, alleging they sought to "humiliate her" because of her "rare form of dwarfism" by placing personnel security files she needed out of her reach. 
"I would not be doing a service to myself, my country, or my children if I sat back knowing that the issues that we have could impact national security," Newbold told the committee, according to the memo. 
Newbold's lawyer says she does not have official whistleblower protection because her case is still making its way through the Office of Special Counsel adjudication, which can take a long time. The lawyer, Ed Passman, says there's no such thing as official whistleblower protection but that the office can offer some protections. 
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
In a letter to Cummings obtained by CNN, Kline's attorney Robert Driscoll asked the Oversight Committee to postpone its planned subpoena vote Tuesday.
"With my recent addition as counsel and Mr. Kline's wish to voluntarily comply, I write to respectfully ask that you please reconsider this course of action," Driscoll wrote.
He argued that instead of voting on a subpoena, Cummings should negotiate with Kline to work out an agreement on what topics could be included in the interview.
Cummings later suggested to CNN that he still intended to proceed with the subpoena.
The top Republican on the committee, Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio, called Cummings' memo "unfortunate and disappointing" and "a partisan attack on the White House." Jordan said that GOP members were not given adequate time to prepare for the Newbold interview. 
"Furthermore, the memo mischaracterizes the information shared by Ms. Newbold. For instance, the twenty-five examples of overruled recommendations by Ms. Newbold heralded by the Democrats include non-political officials such as a GSA custodian."
On Monday afternoon, Jordan's staff issued a nine-page memo rebutting Cummings, saying that the Democrats "cherry-picked" information from Newbold's interview to assert that the White House had poor procedures over national security matters. Jordan's staff argued that Newbold was unhappy with her work environment and that her main concerns centered on Kline, arguing she knew little about why specific individuals' security clearances had been denied, who overrode those denials and their rationale for doing so. The staff's memo said Newbold told the investigators that just "four to five" individuals out of the 25 had been denied clearances for "very serious reasons," saying just three were current and former employees of the White House.
"If Kline overturned only -- at most -- five clearance adjudications with very serious concerns out of 5,000, Ms. Newbold's concerns seem very overblown," the memo said.
Under the law, the President does have final say when it comes to allowing employees access to classified materials, something that Newbold acknowledged to House investigators, according to the memo.
But Cummings has raised concerns that the White House has ignored basic standards for providing security clearances, instead allowing his inner circle access to the country's innermost secrets without regard to the concerns raised by career professionals. CNN reported last month that Trump pressured senior White House officials to grant Ivanka Trump a security clearance, while The New York Times reported that Trump did the same for Kushner.
The memo does not specify the names of the individuals whose security clearances were initially denied -- only to be overruled by the White House. But it does provide some detail about situations involving two senior White House officials and another who used to work for the National Security Council.
For "senior White House official one," Newbold alleged that the individual's security clearance was denied after the background check revealed "significant disqualifying factors, including foreign influence, outside activities ... and personal conduct." But, she alleged, Kline overruled her recommendation to reject the clearance and merely noted "the activities occurred prior to Federal service," prompting concerns from another federal agency after the official applied for an even higher security clearance.
Similarly, after concerns were raised about "senior White House official two," including over the potential of foreign influence, Kline said "do not touch" the case in a conversation with Newbold, according to the memo, and the individual's security clearance was approved.  
For "senior White House official three," who worked at the National Security Council, Kline told Newbold to "change the recommendation" against providing a security clearance, something she said she refused to do.
"I said I would absolutely not," Newbold told the committee.
In their rebuttal memo, Jordan's staff said Newbold had "no direct knowledge" about why Kline overruled her recommendation on the first White House official, and that she acknowledged she did not work on the second  White House official's case "specifically." The Jordan memo also contended that the third White House official had never obtained a final security clearance.
Along with releasing the memo Monday, Cummings sent a letter to White House counsel Pat Cipollone, accusing the White House of stonewalling his repeated requests for information and saying he would proceed to issue a subpoena for Kline at a committee meeting Tuesday. Cummings warned that he was prepared to issue subpoenas after multiple requests for information went ignored, and said he wanted to interview a number of other officials, including former deputy chief of staff Joseph Hagin.
"In light of the grave reports for the whistleblower -- and the ongoing refusal of the White House to provide the information we need to conduct or investigations -- the Committee now plans to proceed with (the) compulsory process and begin authorizing subpoenas, starting at tomorrow's business meeting," Cummings wrote Monday. 
"The Committee will depose Mr. Kline about the security clearance practices in place when he was at the White House, the treatment of specific security clearance adjudications during his tenure, and the interactions with the whistleblower," Cummings wrote. 
The White House has continuously argued in their correspondence with Cummings that it had broad jurisdiction to protect security clearance information of individuals and that they had no intention to turn over personal security clearance information with the committee. The White House did provide the committee with a briefing of the administration's security clearance process and a review of "a handful of guidance documents," according to Cummings. 
This story has been updated with additional developments Monday.
(CNN) - An attorney for former White House official Carl Kline has written to House Oversight and Reform Chairman Elijah Cummings saying Kline is willing to be interviewed by the committee for an investigation into the White House security clearance process, asking that he not be subpoenaed.
According to the letter obtained by CNN, Kline is a current government employee and a former "nonpolitical employee" of the Executive Office of the President and "is more than willing to cooperate with the Committee to the extent he is permitted to do so by law."
"Serving a committee subpoena on a heretofore anonymous nonpolitical government employee, who is willing to work with all parties to see if appropriate resolution to a constitutional and legal dispute can be resolved by agreement, is both an extreme and unnecessary step," wrote Robert Driscoll, Kline's attorney.
In an interview with CNN on Monday night, Cummings suggested that Kline's response to the committee thus far has been insufficient. 
The Maryland Democrat said Kline representatives had told him that "they might have him come in but that he would be limited to only talking about the process in general and would not talk about what happened in these cases."
Cummings added: "Well, that's nice to hear, but after we've been trying to get this information for more than a month, and I'd rather for him to come in and be mandated to give us the information that we need. And then we go from there."
The lawmaker said earlier that he plans to issue a subpoena demanding an interview with Kline -- who served as the personnel security director at the White House during President Donald Trump's first two years in office -- as part of the Democrats' investigation into the handling of the security clearance process, including for Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and the President's daughter Ivanka Trump, both of whom are White House advisers.
Cummings released a memo Monday detailing an interview with a White House employee -- whom he described as a whistleblower -- that alleges that the White House has overturned the security clearance denials of 25 individuals, including two current senior White House officials, saying those decisions were occurring "without proper analysis, documentation, or a full understanding and acceptance of the risks."
(CNN) - The four people found dead Monday in a North Dakota office were identified as the owner of the business and three employees, including a husband and wife, police said on Tuesday.
The bodies of three men and one woman were found at the RJR Maintenance & Management office building in Mandan, outside of the capital of Bismarck, at around 7:30 a.m. on Monday.
In a news conference Tuesday, Mandan Police Chief Jason Ziegler released very few details about what happened or how they died. He said the killings were "very specific to the victims" and that police do not believe the public is in danger. 
The victims were identified as owner Robert Faklar, 52, and employees Adam Fuehrer, 42, Lois Cobb, 45, and William Cobb, 50.
No suspects have been identified and no weapons were recovered at the scene.
Ziegler did not say what the timeline of the deaths was, citing the ongoing investigation. Evidence from the crime scene has been sent for analysis and police are looking at videos of the surrounding area, Ziegler said.
RJR, which is a property maintenance and management company, has posted several short statements on Facebook saying they were closed Monday and Tuesday.
"We will be spending this time discussing our process to move forward and grieve the great losses," the company said.
